GOOD EVENING EVERYONE AND
WELCOME TO THE SEPTEMBER 18
MEETING OF THE NRA CITY COUNCIL
IF YOU'RE ABLE PLEASE RISE AND
JOIN US FOR A MOMENT OF SILENCE
FOLLOWED BY THE PLEDGE
OF ALLEGIANCE
.
>> I PLEDGE ALLEGIANCE TO THE
FLAG OF THE UNITED STATES
OF AMERICA AND TO THE REPUBLIC
FOR WHICH IT STANDS ONE NATION
.
>> IT IS ALL WITH LIBERTY AND
JUSTICE FOR ALL WITH OUR
COLLECTIVE PEACE CALL THE ROLE
OF COUNSEL COUNCIL MEMBER DESH
HERE, COUNCILMAN HARRISON HERE.
FIRST OF ALL HERE COUNCILOR
WATSON HERE, COUNCILOR DENHA
HERE, HERE HERE FOR HERE
ELSEWHERE HERE COUNCILOR BRIGGS
HERE, COUNCILOR CORNELL HERE WE
HAVE A MAJOR MOTION PLEASE TO
APPROVE AGENDA MOVE BY
COUNCILOR OR SECOND BY COUNCIL
MEMBER FOR DENHA DISCUSSION
OF THE AGENDA EVER POSED.
THE AGENDA IS APPROVED.
>> WE HAVE COMMUNICATIONS TODAY
FROM OUR CITY ADMINISTRATOR
NúMERO.
>> THANK YOU.
WE DO HAVE ONE INTRODUCTION
TODAY THAT IS A PROCLAMATION TO
CELEBRATE SEPTEMBER TWENTY
TWENTY THREE AS RECOVERY MONTH
.
WOULD YOU JOIN ME UP
?
THIS IS JOE.
WELL WELL ONE OF THE THINGS
THAT THAT SETS IN ARE PART ONE
OF THE THINGS THAT WE WE
APPRECIATE THAT GIVE ME SUCH
GREAT PRIDE WITH RESPECT TO ANN
ARBOR IS IS OUR COMMUNITY
VALUES AND INDEED ANN ARBOR ANN
ARBOR TRULY IS TRULY IS FOR
EVERYONE AND THAT IS THAT IS
FOUNDATIONAL TO WHO WE ARE.
IT'S FOUNDATIONAL TO HOW WE HOW
WE ORGANIZE OURSELVES AS A
COMMUNITY AND ONE OF THE THE
CONSTITUENT PARTS OF OUR
COMMUNITY IS THE MEMBERS OF ANN
ARBOR, THE ENTIRE COMMUNITY WHO
ARE IN RECOVERY AND I AM JUST
SO PROUD THAT ANN ARBOR IS A
PLACE THAT IS RECOVERY FRIENDLY
WHERE THE COMMUNITY MEMBERS WHO
ARE IN RECOVERY ARE WELCOMED
AND SUPPORTED EACH AND EVERY
LOCATION WITHIN WITHIN WITHIN
ANN ARBOR THEY ARE THERE
ORDINARY FOLKS ARE LIVING THERE
DAY TO DAY LIVES WITH
EXTRAORDINARY STRENGTH AND IT
IS SOMETHING THAT IS IS
INCREDIBLY, INCREDIBLY
VULNERABLE AND AND I'M JUST SO
PROUD THAT OF THE WAY THAT WE
WE WORK TO INTEGRATE WE DO
INTEGRATE MEMBERS OF OUR
COMMUNITY RECOVERY COMMUNITY IN
ANN ARBOR.
AND SO I'M DELIGHTED TO READ
THIS PROCLAMATION IN SMALL TO
EXPRESS THAT PROCLAMATION
CELEBRATING SEPTEMBER TWENTY
TWENTY THREE AS RECOVERY MONTH
WHEREAS SEPTEMBER IS NATIONAL
RECOVERY MONTH AND WHEREAS
ADDICTION IS A MAJOR NATIONAL
PUBLIC HEALTH ISSUE AFFECTING
THOSE WHO SUFFER THEIR
FAMILIES, LOVED ONES AND THEIR
COMMUNITIES WHEREAS RECOVERY IS
A REALITY FOR MILLIONS
OF RESILIENT AMERICANS WHOSE
LIFE HAS BEEN TRANSFORMED AS A
RESULT.
SO TO HAVE THEIR FAMILIES AND
THEIR COMMUNITIES WHEREAS
RECOVERY FROM ADDICTION
FLOURISHES AND SUPPORTIVE
RECOVERY FRIENDLY COMMUNITIES
WHERE WHEREAS AS ANN ARBOR IS
SUCH A RECOVERY FROM THE
COMMUNITY HOME TO A VIBRANT,
DIVERSE AND THRIVING
RECOVERY COMMUNITY A MODEL
RECOVERY ORIENTED SYSTEM
OF CARE RECOVERY FROM THE
EMPLOYERS COLLEGIATE
RECOVERY PROGRAMS AND MANY
RECOVERY ALLIES AND DEDICATED
PROFESSIONALS WHO HELP PEOPLE
INITIATE AND MAINTAIN THEIR
RECOVERIES.
AND WHEREAS PROCLAIMING
SEPTEMBER TWENTY TWENTY THREE
AS RECOVERY MONTH SERVES TO
APPLAUD THOSE WHO ARE IN
RECOVERY THEIR FAMILIES LOVED
ONES AND THE COMMUNITY THAT
SUPPORTS THEM PROVIDING HOPE TO
THOSE WHO STILL SUFFER AND
AFFIRMING OUR SHARED BELIEF IN
REDEMPTION AND SECOND CHANCES.
NOW THEREFORE I CHRISTOPHER
TAYLOR OF ANN ARBOR, MICHIGAN
DO HEREBY PROCLAIM THE MONTH
OF SEPTEMBER TWENTY TWENTY
THREE AS RECOVERY MONTH AND
INVITE RESIDENTS OF ANN ARBOR
TO SUPPORT THOSE IN
RECOVERY AND THE PROGRAMS AND
SERVICES TO DESIGN DESIGNED TO
HELP THOSE IN NEED.
>> THANK YOU.
>> ALL RIGHT.
HELLO EVERYONE.
THANK YOU MAYOR AND COUNCIL FOR
ONCE AGAIN RECOGNIZING
SEPTEMBER AS RECOVERY MONTH.
MY NAME IS MATT STATMAN AND
I'VE TOLD MY STORY HERE BEFORE
BUT I'M GOING TO DO IT AGAIN.
I GREW UP HERE IN ANN ARBOR.
I DEVELOPED A SUBSTANCE USE
DISORDER IN ANN ARBOR AND I
BROKE THE LAW IN ANN ARBOR.
I WENT TO JAIL IN ANN ARBOR.
I WENT TO PRISON AS A RESULT
OF THINGS I DID IN ANN ARBOR.
I ALSO GOT PUBLICLY FUNDED LONG
TERM TREATMENT IN ANN ARBOR.
I HAD ACCESS TO ENTRY LEVEL
JOBS AND AFFORDABLE SUPPORTIVE
STRUCTURED HOUSING THAT DID NOT
DISCRIMINATE AGAINST ME BASED
ON MY LEGAL HISTORY AND I'VE
NOW BEEN AN ABSTINENCE BASED
RECOVERY IN ANN ARBOR SINCE
2002 AND IN THAT TIME I'VE
ATTENDED WASHTENAW COMMUNITY
COLLEGE EASTERN
MICHIGAN
UNIVERSITY AND THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN AND I WORK AT THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN MANAGING
THE COLLEGIATE
RECOVERY PROGRAM.
I ALSO TEACH IN THE SCHOOL
OF SOCIAL WORK AT EASTERN
MICHIGAN UNIVERSITY AND I DO
WORK WITH THE LOCAL COURTS TO
HELP PEOPLE GET ADEQUATE CARE
FOR THEIR SUBSTANCE USE ISSUES
RATHER THAN PUNISHMENT.
AND MY STORY IS NOT UNIQUE.
ANN ARBOR IS HOME TO A DIVERSE
AND STRONG RECOVERY COMMUNITY.
WE ARE EVERYWHERE.
IT'S LIKELY THAT YOU INTERACT
WITH PEOPLE IN RECOVERY ALL THE
TIME AND YOU MAY NOT KNOW IT.
ANN ARBOR IS A GREAT PLACE TO
BE IN RECOVERY AND IT'S ALSO
AND WE ALSO HAVE WORK TO DO AND
I'M GOING TO TELL A STORY THE
OTHER DAY I WAS DOING AN
ASSESSMENT OF A GUY WHO IS
CAUGHT INVOLVED AND NEEDED
TREATMENT AND WE WERE TALKING
ABOUT HIS HISTORY AND I ASKED
HIM ABOUT HIS SUBSTANCE USE AND
HE SAID MAN, I'M FROM ANN ARBOR
LIKE I GET HIGH AND IT WAS
ALMOST AS IF SUBSTANCE USE WAS
SYNONYMOUS WITH GROWING UP IN
ANN ARBOR AND RECOVERY SHOULD
ALSO BE A PLACE THAT IS
SYNONYMOUS WITH GROWING UP IN
ANN ARBOR IF YOU HAVE A
SUBSTANCE USE ISSUE SO WE HAVE
WORK TO DO AFFORDABLE HOUSING
ESPECIALLY RECOVERY , SAFE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING IS A BARRIER
FOR PEOPLE IN EARLY
RECOVERY LIVING NEAR THEIR
WORKPLACES OR FINDING HOMES IN
PLACES WITH ACCESS TO THE
SOCIAL DETERMINANTS
OF RECOVERY, ACCESS TO ADEQUATE
TREATMENT IS STILL NOT
EQUITABLE IN CERTAIN
POPULATIONS HAVE EASIER ACCESS
TO GOOD CARE.
THE LEGAL SYSTEM STILL NEEDS A
LOT OF WORK AND PEOPLE WITH A
HISTORY OF ADDICTION STILL FACE
DISCRIMINATION IN MANY
WORKPLACES WE'VE DONE A LOT TO
ADDRESS THESE ISSUES.
ANN ARBOR HAS A RECOVERY IS
GOOD BUSINESS INITIATIVE WHERE
LOCAL BUSINESSES HIRE PEOPLE IN
RECOVERY INTENTIONALLY AND WE
HAVE WORK TO DO.
>> AS I SAID.
SO IN ORDER TO MAKE ANN ARBOR
CONTINUE TO MAKE ANN ARBOR AND
INCREASINGLY RECOVERY FRIENDLY
COMMUNITY, WE SHOULD CONTINUE
TO FOCUS ON THESE THINGS AND WE
NEED TO CELEBRATE THE WORK
WE'VE DONE AND HUNDREDS IF NOT
THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE IN
RECOVERY AND THEIR FAMILIES IN
OUR COMMUNITY.
SO THANKS AGAIN FOR RECOGNIZING
THIS AND I'M GOING TO TURN IT
OVER TO MY FRIEND JOHN HERE
.
MY NAME IS JOHN.
I'M A PERSON IN RECOVERY , YOU
KNOW, GOING ALL THE WAY BACK TO
JUST THE STORY.
THERE'S TOO MANY STORIES TO
TELL.
I WAS YOUNG, FULL OF ANGST
AROUND 10 OR 11 YEARS OLD.
I BEGAN TO RECOGNIZE THAT I
NEEDED TO CHANGE HOW I FELT.
FAST FORWARD TO THE DRUGS AND
ALCOHOL BECAME SOMETHING THAT I
USED IN MY LIFE TO CHANGE HOW I
FELT AND IT WORKED FOR A LITTLE
WHILE UNTIL IT DOESN'T WORK
ANYMORE AND THEN BEFORE YOU
KNOW, I WAS OVERWHELMED IN A
CULTURE OF ADDICTION PARTYING
AND HANGING OUT WITH THE WRONG
ENVIRONMENT.
FAST FORWARD THERE'S A LOT
OF CONSEQUENCES, A LOT
OF MISSTEPS AND YOU KNOW,
BEFORE YOU KNOW IT, YOU'RE
THIRTY FIVE FORTY YEARS OLD OUT
OF TOUCH AND IN DENIAL AND I I
HAD TO FIGURE OUT WHAT THEY
WOULD CALL RADICALLY EXCEPT
THAT I WASN'T GOING TO BE ABLE
TO CHANGE MY OWN.
>> I NEEDED HELP FROM OTHER
PEOPLE AND SO YOU KNOW, I WENT
TO PROGRAMS THAT THEY TOLD ME
THAT I NEEDED OTHER PEOPLE.
I WENT TO THESE PROGRAMS AND I
GOT RESPONSE AND MY SPONSOR
SAID GOING TO MEETINGS AND SHUT
IN JUST LISTEN TO WHAT OTHER
PEOPLE HAVE TO TELL.
FIND OUT WHAT THEY DID.
SO YOU KNOW, FIFTEEN YEARS AGO
I BEGAN BEGAN THAT JOURNEY AND
TODAY I CAN SAY THAT, YOU KNOW,
I HAVE I'M EXPERIENCING THE
BEST LIFE I CAN IMAGINE.
>> I HAVE A COUPLE DEGREES.
I'M AT THE COLLEGIATE
RECOVERY PROGRAM UP AT MICHIGAN
.
CONSIDER HIM A GREAT FRIEND AND
I LANDED AT DAWN FARMS WHICH
I'M CURRENTLY THE THE
COORDINATOR OF OUTPATIENT
SERVICES.
SO YOU KNOW, ALONG WITH MY
STORY THERE'S ALSO A LOT
OF PEOPLE THAT HAVE THE SAME
EXPERIENCES THAT I WORK WITH ON
A DAILY BASIS AND I HAVE A
STAFF THAT WORKS HARD WITH
PEOPLE THAT ARE TRYING TO, YOU
KNOW, MAKE A DECISION TO
RADICALLY ACCEPT THAT THEY NEED
HELP FROM OTHERS.
THIS IS VERY IMPORTANT.
>> IT IS VERY IMPORTANT FOR
PEOPLE TO KNOW THAT YOU CAN
RECOVER FROM SUBSTANCE ABUSE,
OPIOID ADDICTION I LEARNED A
LONG TIME AGO WAS TOLD A LONG
TIME AGO THAT I PROBABLY HADN'T
HAD WOULDN'T HAVE A CHANCE TO
RECOVER PEOPLE THAT USE OPIATES
OR HEROIN THEY DON'T RECOVER
AND THAT'S NOT TRUE.
WE JUST NEED THE RIGHT GUIDANCE
AND THE RIGHT HELP.
AS SOON AS I GOT HERE AND ANN
ARBOR FOR GRAD SCHOOL I THERE
WAS AND THERE WAS SOME ANXIETY
AROUND COMING TO A BIG
UNIVERSITY LIKE THIS AND I TOLD
THEM WHAT I NEEDED.
THEY TOLD ME ABOUT THE
COLLEGIATE RECOVERY PROGRAM.
I GOT INTO THE MASSIVE PROGRAM
I MET AND A LOT OF OTHER PEOPLE
THAT HAD THE SAME JOURNEY AND
HERE I AM.
ANN ARBOR IS A GREAT PLACE TO
BE, A GREAT PLACE TO RECOVER
AND BUT WE GOT A LOT OF WORK TO
DO.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
YOU KNOW, COME TO PUBLIC COMMON
RESERVE TO BECOME A RESERVE
TIME IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC TO SPEAK
TO COUNCIL AND THE COMMUNITY
THAT MATTERS MUNICIPAL INTEREST
TO SPEAK OF PUBLIC COMMON
RESERVE TIME ONE NEEDS TO HAVE
SIGNED UP IN ADVANCE BY
CONTACTING OUR CITY CLERK
SPEAKERS IN HOUSE AND ONLINE
WILL HAVE THREE MINUTES IN
WHICH TO SPEAK.
SO PLEASE PAY CLOSE ATTENTION
TO THE TIME OUR CLERK OR THE
CLERK WILL NOTIFY YOU IN THIRTY
SECONDS.
OUR REMAINING AND WHEN YOUR
TIME IS EXPIRED WHEN YOUR TIME
IS EXPIRED PLEASE CONCLUDE YOUR
REMARKS AND CEDE THE FLOOR
FIRST SPEAKER TODAY HUH MARY
?
GOOD EVENING EVERYONE.
GLAD TO BE HERE.
MY NAME IS MARY PEEPLES.
I REPRESENT TWO CREATIVE
COMPANIES THREE TIME GIRLS AND
MONKEYS.
WE HAVE BEEN SERVING IN OUR
COUNTY AND SOUTHEASTERN
MICHIGAN FOR OVER TWENTY YEARS
BRINGING PUBLIC ART AND WINDOW
ART TO THESE TWO DIFFERENT
NEIGHBORHOODS AND CITIES.
>> TODAY I'M HERE TO TALK ABOUT
CONSENT AGENDA NUMBER SIX FOR
ALL OF YOU.
IT'S THE MURALS THAT BRIDGE
PROJECT WE ARE IDENTIFYING TWO
MAJOR GATEWAYS TO OUR COMMUNITY
ONE BEING THE HURON UNDERPASS
OVER HERE AND THEN NORTH MAIN
STREET MAIN STREET IS ACTUALLY
WHERE I GOT MY START AS A
PUBLIC ARTIST.
THE PAINTING THERE STILL
EXISTS.
IT'S VERY MUCH IN NEED
OF REPAIR BUT WE'VE USED THIS
FOOTHOLD TO BRING THIS NEW
PROJECT TO THE RESIDENTS AND
VISITORS OF ANN ARBOR.
>> THIS PROJECT IS NOT ONLY
GOING TO RESTORE THE WALLS BUT
ALSO THE FASCIA BEAM.
SO THIS IS THE FIRST TIME
ACTUALLY THE METAL OVERPASS
GOES OVER THE ROADS WILL BE
IDENTIFIED FOR PUBLIC ART AND
BECAUSE OF THAT WE NEED A RIGHT
OF WAY PERMIT.
WE WILL BE CLOSING THE LANES
ONE AT A TIME IN ORDER TO
ACCESS THE FASCIA BEAM.
WE HAVE HIRED NASDA PAINTING TO
DO THE RESTORATION OF THE
OVERPASS AND IT WASN'T UNTIL
RECENTLY THAT THAT TOLD US THAT
TREETOP MURALS WASCO AND NORTH
STAR ARE ACTUALLY NOT ELIGIBLE
TO FILE THE ROAD PERMIT.
SO WE HAVE HAD TO LEAN ON THE
CITY OF ANN ARBOR TO REPRESENT
THIS PROJECT FOR US AND THANK
YOU TO THOSE WHO HAVE ALREADY
COOPERATED IMMENSELY ON CITY
STAFF TO GET US EVEN ON THIS
AGENDA TODAY.
THIS PROJECT WAS SLATED TO
START IN JULY AND HERE WE ARE
IN SEPTEMBER.
SO IT GOES WITHOUT SAYING THAT
WE'RE KIND OF MOVING THIS AS
FAST AS POSSIBLE, HOPEFULLY AT
LEAST GETTING THE RESTORATION
DONE AND MAYBE THE WING WALL IS
PAINTED AND HOPEFULLY THE WHOLE
PROJECT BEFORE THE END
OF TWENTY TWENTY THREE.
>> NOW THIS IS A TWO FOLD
PROJECT SO TYING IN TO THE
BICENTENNIAL OF NEXT YEAR WE
HOPE TO DO THE RESTORATION AND
NEW MURALS ON THE NORTH MAIN
AND AGAIN CREATING WELCOMING
MESSAGING TO PEOPLE COMING INTO
OUR COMMUNITY IS KIND OF THE
THE THE BIG OVERHAUL HERE.
SO TODAY WITH CONSENT AGENDA
NUMBER SIX WE'RE LOOKING FOR
APPROVAL FROM THE CITY TO KIND
OF GO THROUGH WITH THIS PROJECT
THAT THE CITY WOULD FILE THE
ROW ON OUR BEHALF AND THAT WE
COULD JUST KIND OF GET GOING
WITH THE APPROVALS.
NOW I ALSO SERVE AS A PUBLIC
COMMISSIONER HERE IN ANN ARBOR
AND WE'VE NEVER HAD TO DEAL
WITH THIS ESTHETIC ENHANCEMENT
CRITERIA THAT I'M THAT IS
PUTTING FOR US.
BUT IT'S ALSO JUST A GREAT KIND
OF LEARNING CURVE FOR
FUTURE
PUBLIC ART PROJECTS.
SO THIS IS PROBABLY NOT THE
FIRST TIME YOU WILL SEE THIS ON
YOUR AGENDA GIVEN THAT TWENTY
TWENTY FOUR WE WANT TO DO THIS
AGAIN.
SO WE ARE LOOKING TO HAVE THE
CITY SUPPORT US AND MOVING
FORWARD WITH THIS PROJECT.
>> SO YES.
THANK YOU.
YOU'RE OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS
LAURA AFLALO AND MY NAME IS
LARRY.
>> HELLO I'M AND AM WORKING
WITH MARY ON THE MURALS THE
BRIDGE PROJECT.
I HAVE ACTED AS THE MAIN
FUNDRAISER FOR THIS PROJECT AS
OF NOW AND WE HAVE THROUGH OVER
FIFTY FINANCIAL BACKERS RAISED
ENOUGH MONEY TO COMPLETE THE
ENTIRE HERE UNDERPASS AND OVER
OVERPASS PROJECT.
SO WE ARE READY TO GO.
>> I'M ALSO A WARD FIVE
RESIDENT SO I CAN SEE THAT
UNDERPASS AND OVERPASS FROM MY
HOUSE SO I'M VERY EXCITED ABOUT
HAVING A COLOR FROM YOUR MURAL
THERE AND FOR THE PEOPLE COMING
IN AND OUT OF TOWN TO
EXPERIENCE THAT AS WELL.
SO WE REALLY HOPE THAT YOU WILL
BACK AGENDA SIX TONIGHT AND IN
TWENTY TWENTY FOUR FOR THE
BICENTENNIAL THAT YOU WILL BACK
THE MAIN STREET ONE AS WELL.
>> SO THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ALEX LOWE.
ALEX LOWE, I'M ZOOME.
>> DO YOU HAVE A COMMENT.
GO AHEAD
.
>> I XOLO CALLING IN FROM WARD
THREE.
A QUICK NOTE ON CO2 IN
CENTENNIAL PARK.
THIS IS ABSOLUTELY FANTASTIC.
I'D LOVE TO SEE SOME CITY
FUNDING GOING TO IMPROVING THE
PARK AND IT'S NOT HARD
CONNECTIVITY.
TOO MANY PEOPLE COME TO THAT
PARK FROM THE OTHER SIDE OF 894
MEANING THEY EVEN EITHER HAVE
TO TAKE THE PEDESTRIAN BRIDGE
FROM MARY BETH DOYLE AND THEN
WALK ALONG ELSWORTH OR THEY
HAVE TO USE THE PARK ROAD RAGE
WHICH HAS FIVE LANES
OF SPEEDING TRAFFIC ON IT,
NARROW ON BUFFETT AND
UNPROTECTED BIKE LANES AND
RECEPTIONS EVEN JUST A LANE
RESTRIKING TO REMOVE THE
TURNING LANE FROM THE BRIDGE
ITSELF AND REBIRTH AND PROVIDE
BUSSES FOR THE BIKE LANES WOULD
PROBABLY WOULD IMPROVE IT
TREMENDOUSLY AND THERE IS EVEN
MORE IMPROVEMENT THAT OUR SURE
OUR ENGINEERS COULD COME UP
WITH AT THE SAME TIME.
>> BUT I'D ALSO LIKE TO
CONTINUE POINTING OUT THAT AS A
CITY WE'RE STILL
UNDERPERFORMING OUR PROGRESS ON
AN ALL AGES AND ABILITIES.
I THINK WHAT HAS BEEN CORE
FULLY A QUARTER OF TOTAL AND
SIDEWALKS AND INNER CITY REMAIN
UNFILLED AND AT OUR CURRENT
PACE IT'LL TAKE US ANOTHER
CENTURY TO BUILD.
WE CONTINUE TO WAIT FOR YEARS
FOR TRAFFIC UPCOMING PROJECTS
WITH THE PETITIONS BUT FOR ITS
YEAR BY HAVING ITS SUBMITTED
ALL THE WAY BACK IN 2020 WE
CONTINUE TO HAVE EMPTY LOTS
WHERE IT'S NOT EVEN LEGAL TO
BUILD A DUPLEX BECAUSE ABOUT
EIGHT DAYS TO DO ANYTHING MORE
THAN AND WE CONTINUE TO ALLOW
NEW CONSTRUCTION WITH EVEN MORE
DEBT SPACE DEDICATED TO TWO AND
TO HUMAN BEINGS WE CAN CONTINUE
TO SUBSIDIZE PARKING WITH PRICE
OR FREE GOVERNMENT FUNDED
PARKING PROVIDED ALL OVER THE
STREETS ALL THE ACROSS TOWN AND
ALL OVER THIS CONTRIBUTES TO
AUTOMOBILE EMISSIONS WHICH ARE
ONE OF THE LARGEST FORMS
OF GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS NOT
JUST IN THE CITY WHERE IT'S
EVEN LARGER THAN THE PORTIONS
THAT SET ASIDE NATIONWIDE BUT
IN FACT IN THE COUNTRY AND
AROUND THE WORLD.
IF WE'RE GOING TO BE SERIOUS
ABOUT CLIMATE, IF WE'RE GOING
TO BE SERIOUS ABOUT SAFETY, WE
REALLY NEED TO FOCUS ON GETTING
OUR TRANSPORTATION.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
>> OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS THOMAS
WEEDER, THE PRESIDENT EXCUSE ME
THE RESOLUTION PASSED BY
COUNCIL TWO WEEKS AGO TO RAISE
MONEY FOR A STATUE OF FORMER
CITY COUNCILWOMAN BECAUSE IT IS
ONE OF THE MORE ILL CONCEIVED
MEASURES THAT I'VE SEEN PROVED
IN THIS 50 PLUS YEARS THAT I'VE
OBSERVED THIS COUNCIL.
>> I'M ALMOST CERTAIN THAT
AMONG THE MEMBERS OF COUNCIL
AND ME I'M THE ONLY ONE WHO
ACTUALLY KNEW KATHY AND
WITNESSED THE POLITICAL EVENTS
THAT TOOK PLACE AT THAT TIME.
AS FAR AS I KNOW THERE ARE NO
STATUES OF ANY PERSON IN PUBLIC
VIEW ANYWHERE IN THE CITY
OF ANN ARBOR.
THIS IS NOT A GOOD TIME TO
START AND THIS IS NOT THE RIGHT
PERSON TO START WITH.
KATHY IS TO BE HONORED FOR
BEING THE FIRST OPENLY GAY OR
LESBIAN CANDIDATE TO BE ELECTED
TO PUBLIC OFFICE IN THIS
COUNTRY.
NOTE KATHY WASN'T THE FIRST
PERSON TO BE OUT WHILE IN
OFFICE.
THAT DISTINCTION IS BELIEVED TO
BELONG TO TWO MEMBERS OF THIS
COUNCIL WHO PRECEDED HER JERRY
TO GREEK AND NANCY WEXLER WHO
CAME OUT WELL ON COUNCIL.
SHE ALSO WASN'T THE FIRST
OPENLY GAY OR LESBIAN CANDIDATE
FOR PUBLIC OFFICE.
THAT DISTINCTION PROBABLY
BELONGS TO THE LEGENDARY SAN
FRANCISCO GAY ACTIVIST HARVEY
MILK.
MOLK WAS ELECTED TO THE SAN
FRANCISCO BOARD OF SUPERVISORS
IN NINETEEN SEVENTY SEVEN.
HE WAS ASSASSINATED BY
CONSERVATIVE MEMBER THAT BODY
WITHIN A YEAR OF HIS ELECTION
MILK HAD RUN ALSO AS AN OPENLY
GAY MAN IN NINETEEN SEVENTY
THREE BEFORE CATHY RAN BUT LOST
HE HAD THE DISADVANTAGE
OF HAVING TO RUN AND WIN
CITYWIDE WHAT CATHY HAD ONLY TO
PREVAIL IN THE PREDOMINANTLY
STUDENT AND DECIDEDLY GAY
FRIENDLY SECOND WARD WHICH IS
ALREADY REPRESENTED BY NANCY
WEXLER.
THE RESOLUTION DESCRIBES CATHY
AS A BEACON OF COURAGE BUT SHE
DISAGREES.
SHE SAID I DON'T THINK I WAS
BRAVE BECAUSE I WAS IN A
COLLEGE TOWN AND IT WAS COOL TO
BE WHO I WAS.
NANCY WEXLER AGREES, SHE SAID.
AND IN NINETEEN SEVENTY FOUR WE
HAD PRETTY MUCH GOTTEN
EVERYTHING WE WANTED FOR GAY
PEOPLE BY THEN THERE WASN'T
REALLY A DEBATE ABOUT GAY OVER
GAY RIGHTS IN HER WARD.
SO WHAT WERE CATHY'S
CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE CITY
OF ANN BESIDES THIS HISTORICAL
FOOTNOTE, THE RESOLUTION
DOESN'T SAY ANYTHING ELSE THAT
CATHY DID EXCEPT THAT SHE WAS
AN ACTIVE A STUDENT AT THE
UNIVERSITY MICHIGAN THAT COVERS
MANY TENS OF THOUSANDS
OF PEOPLE.
THERE ARE MANY OTHER INEBRIATE
TO ACTUALLY MADE MAJOR AND
LASTING CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE
LIFE AND HISTORY OF THE CITY
WHO WOULD BE MORE DESERVING
OF SUCH AN HONOR.
BUT IN ITS TWO HUNDRED TWO
HUNDRED YEAR AS A CITY, ABBOTT
DOESN'T REALLY NEED TO START
ERECTING BRONZE MONUMENTS TO
PEOPLE AND IF IT DID CHOOSING
KATHY IT'S COULD TO BE THE
FIRST ONE ISN'T SOUND
GOVERNANCE IT'S PANDERING AND
VIRTUE SIGNALING THIS ACTION
SHOULD BE REVERSED.
>> WHO YOU REALLY OUR FIRST OUR
NEXT SPEAKER IS MERGENCE IBSA
FUNNY.
ALL RIGHT.
FIRST THINGS NOT LISTEN TO OLD
WHITE MEN THEY'RE MOSTLY RACIST
AND THEY ARE BACKWARD RIGHT
TACTIC.
OH CHANKO WAS A LESBIAN BUT SHE
WAS A WHOLE LOT MORE THAN THAT.
SHE WAS AN ADVOCATE FOR
PALESTINIAN HUMAN RIGHTS 45
YEARS AGO.
IF SHE WAS HERE TODAY THIS
BUNCH OF RACIST AND OTHER CITY
COUNCIL MEMBERS WOULD HAVE
CHASED HER OUT OF HERE BECAUSE
SHE WAS A PRINCIPLED HUMAN
BEING WHO STOOD UP FOR THE
RIGHTS OF PALESTINIANS.
FORTY FIVE YEARS AGO THIS CITY
COUNCIL HAS BEEN STANDING
BEFORE THIS RESOLUTION TO
PROTECT PALESTINIAN PEOPLE FOR
THE PAST TWENTY TWO YEARS.
WE ARE AGAINST MILITARY AID TO
ISRAEL.
ISRAEL IS AN APARTHEID STATE
WITH MURDERING OR STRIPPING
NAKED WOMEN HUMILIATING KILLING
PEOPLE, UPROOTING TREES,
BURNING PLUMES YOU NAME IT A
BIT.
AND THIS CITY COUNCIL SITS HERE
AND PROTECTS RACIST NAZI
ZIONIST STATE THE BEST THEY
CAN.
NOW THAT'S NOT ALL THEY DO AND
THEY ARE FOLLOWING A SITUATION
THAT'S WHAT THEY DEMANDED MORE
TACITLY AND SHAMELESSLY BUT
MORE RIGHT NOW WE ARE SITTING
ON THE ROAD BLOCKS AND
CONTAMINATION OF UNDERGROUND
WATER IN THIS TOWN.
YET THESE GUYS ARE SO PROUD.
OH, THIS IS A GREAT PLACE TO
LIVE.
IT'S PAID SOME STAND AND
CHRISTINE MANAGES TO MAKE IT
BEAUTIFUL AND JAILABLE.
AREN'T YOU PEOPLE ASHAMED
OF YOURSELVES THIS IS BECOMING
MORE AND MORE LIGHT EVERY DAY
OF THE WEEK.
AREN'T YOU ASHAMED YOU KEEP
TALKING ABOUT HOUSING.
THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE ARE SITTING
ON THE LIST ON THOSE LISTS
WAITING FOR VOUCHERS.
YOU SHAMEFUL.
YOU'RE SHAMEFUL.
YOU DO NOTHING FOR THE PEOPLE
OF THIS TOWN.
YOU HAVE PEOPLE WHO ARE RICH
AND WAIT AND YOU DARE TO TELL
US THIS IS THE BEST PLACE TO
LIVE THIS IS NOT THE BEST PLACE
TO LIVE.
YOU HAVE A BUNCH OF RACIST
PEOPLE.
YOU HAVE STOOD BY A NAZI RACIST
STATE THAT IS ISRAEL FOR 22
YEARS AND YOU ARE SHAMEFUL.
YES, SHAMEFUL THINGS CAN BE
DONE DIFFERENTLY AND WHAT THESE
OUT AND THAT WILL STAND FOR
HUMANITY.
WE WASTE FOR ENVIRONMENTAL
HEALTH CENTER GLOBAL WARMING.
THEY DON'T MEAN ANY OF IT THEY
NEED IS WHAT THEY DO WHICH IS
TO SAY BABY UGLY WHITE PEOPLE
WHO ARE RICH.
THANK YOU.
>> OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS
CORNELIUS WILLIAMS.
CORNELIUS WILLIAMS IS ON ZOOME
CAN YOU PLEASE RAISE YOUR HAND
TO RAISE YOUR HAND BY PRESSING
STAR NINE?
I DON'T BELIEVE MR. WILLIAMS IS
ON THE PHONE
OUR NEXT SPEAKER
IS BLAINE COLEMAN
FIRST I WANT
TO ADDRESS MYSELF TO THE WHO
IS FIGHTING SO HARD TO STOP THE
STATUE OF KATHY BECAUSE
OF CHANKO KATHY CALLS IT
SCHENKEL WAS A GREAT WOMAN
STILL IS ALTHOUGH SHE'S BEEN
OUT OF POLITICS FOR MANY YEARS
NOT ONLY GREAT BECAUSE SHE
STOOD FOR GAY AND LESBIAN
RIGHTS WHEN THAT WAS HARDER
THAN IT IS NOW THE GREAT
BECAUSE SHE STOOD LOUDLY IN
THIS ROOM IN THE CITY COUNCIL,
STOOD LOUDLY FOR PALESTINIAN
HUMAN RIGHTS.
BLESS HER FOR THAT.
SO YEAH, I WANT TO SEE THE
STATUTE OF HER EVEN THOUGH THIS
CITY COUNCIL AIRBRUSHING OUT
HER PALESTINIAN RIGHTS ACTIVISM
,EVEN THOUGH THE CITY COUNCIL
IS REDUCING HER TO A ONE
DIMENSIONAL CARDBOARD CHARACTER
SHE WAS MULTIDIMENSIONAL AT A
HUMAN RIGHTS FIGHTER WILLEMSE
THAT THE CITY COUNCIL HAS
FOUGHT FOR AND INTERRUPT THE
LEAGUE FROM JANUARY OF NINETEEN
EIGHTY FOUR UNTIL NOW HAS BEEN
TO KILL PALESTINIANS.
THIS CITY COUNCIL HAS STOOD
HARD AND FAST AGAINST ANY
PALESTINIAN RIGHTS RESOLUTION
AGAINST ANY PALESTINIAN RIGHTS
RESOLUTION SINCE JANUARY
OF NINETEEN EIGHTY FOUR RIGHT
UP TO NOW RIGHT UP TO NOW THIS
CITY COUNCIL DOMESTICALLY HAS A
POLICY.
DOMESTIC POLICY IS TO BE HELD
ON EVERY AVAILABLE INCH OF LAND
SO THAT'S LUXURY HOUSING FOR
THE FILTHY RICH AND AND ALL
THAT EVERYONE ELSE IS DRIVEN
OUT BECAUSE THEY CANNOT AFFORD
THE RENT THAT'S THEIR DOMESTIC
POLICY.
THEIR DOMESTIC POLICY ALSO IS
PROCLAIMING THEMSELVES TO BE
ALL ABOUT EQUITY AS THEY'RE
TURNING OUT BE MORE AND MORE
LILLYWHITE AND MORE AND MORE
FILTHY RICH.
>> IT'S A TWIN POLICY, THEIR
FOREIGN POLICY AND YOU CAN SEE
THEY HAVE A FOREIGN POLICY.
THEIR FOREIGN POLICY IS TO
FIGHT LIKE TO PROTECT ISRAEL
AS IT KEEPS MASSACRING
PALESTINIANS THAT THEIR
UNCHANGING FOREIGN POLICY THIS
CITY COUNCIL HAS IS GENERAL
OF COURSE SHE'S RUNNING OUT
OF THE ROOM.
SHE TOOK CAMPAIGN MONEY JANAYA
CAMPAIGN MONEY FROM OLD FRIENDS
OF THE ISRAEL DEFENSE FORCES
AND THAT'S WHO JUST APPOINTED
BY THIS CITY COUNCIL TO OVERSEE
A POLICE VAN ARBER AND OLD
HONCHO OF THE FRIENDS OF THE
ISRAEL DEFENSE FORCES THAT AND
CITY COUNCIL IS WORRIED THAT
THAT'S A BAD IDEA.
YET THEY DID IT WITHOUT
HESITATION.
>> THIS IS A RACIST CITY
COUNCIL THROUGH AND THROUGH.
>> THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS TOM
STALBERG.
TOM STALBERG NO ENDING IN FIVE
THREE FOUR.
GO AHEAD.
THANK YOU.
GOOD EVENING ALBERT DOWN THE
NRA A QUICK SHOUT OUT THAT
BRIDGE I'M LOOKING FOR THE I'VE
SEEN SOME OF THE WORK AND I'M
LOOKING FORWARD TO SEEING MORE
OF THAT.
I'D LIKE TO TALK ABOUT
CONDITIONAL ZONING.
I BET YOU AND THE NO ZONING
IT'S COMPLICATED AND COUNTER
INTUITIVE AND I REALLY WISH WE
WOULD HAVE ADDRESSED IT MORE
PUBLICLY WHEN WE SPOKE ABOUT
DOWNTOWN THERE WAS A
CONDITIONAL ZONING
UNFORTUNATELY.
>> KALPA NO NOT ALL OF YOU SOME
OF CHOSE TO MAKE DISPARAGING
COMMENTS ABOUT A CONSTITUENT
RATHER THAN ADDRESSING THE MEAT
OF THE ARGUMENT AND THE ISSUES
THAT WERE RAISED BY BOTH
SPEAKERS AT THAT MEETING ABOUT
SOUTHTOWN THAT WAS UNSEEMLY
UNSEEMLY WHERE WE HEARD THAT
WORD RECENTLY WHAT WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT TRADITIONAL
ZONING AND LOWERTOWN DIDN'T USE
THAT WORD AFTER MAKING SOME
COMMENTS THAT WERE COMPLETELY
INCORRECT ABOUT CONDITIONAL
ZONING REGARDING THE THIRD CASE
OF DOWN, YOU CRITICIZE PEOPLE
WHO WERE PROPOSING THINGS FOR
THAT PROJECT THAT THEY WERE
HOPING THE DEVELOPER MIGHT
DELIVER ON AN UNSEEMLY THING TO
ASK FOR THINGS LIKE HOUSING OR
SUSTAINABILITY REFORM OR
FURTHER ELECTRIFICATION MAYBE
RETAIL INSTEAD OF A SECOND POOL
ONLY HALF MILE FROM FULLER POOL
.
I DON'T THINK THOSE THINGS WERE
UNSEEMLY.
YOU MAKE THE OFFER IN YOUR
OPINION ABOUT IT BUT FRANKLY
CORRECT IN YOUR STATEMENT ABOUT
CONDITIONAL ZONING BECAUSE IT
WAS NOT THE CASE THAT THIS WAS
THE APPLYING FOR A PROJECT WITH
INVESTMENT GOING IN WITH A
DEVELOPER WHO HAD ORRIN HATCH
PUT UPON THEIR PRORTY ASKING
FOR IT TO BE REMOVED.
>> VERY DEEP POCKETS GET BACK
TO SOUTH FOR A LOT OF THESE
ISSUES THAT COULD HAVE BEEN
DISCUSSED IN MOST OF THEM WERE
NOT DISCUSSED.
FOR EXAMPLE, WE COULD HAVE
DEBATED DISCUSSED AT THE
COUNCIL TABLE THE NON PRIMARY
RESIDENCE SHORT TERM RENTAL
ISSUE NOT TOO LONG AGO THE CITY
PASSED AN ORDINANCE THAT
BANNING THOSE IN RESIDENTIAL
ZONING RECENTLY MORE RECENTLY
THAN THAT INCREASED PROPERTY
ONE ZONING THEY WERE BANNED IN
CITY ONE AS WELL.
>> THE 30 SECOND RESIDENTIAL
ZONING BEING CONVERTED TO NON
RESIDENTIAL BUILDING AND IN
THIS CASE DOWNTOWN GIVING THEM
UP TO 50 UNITS.
>> ARE WE GIVING A MONOPOLY TO
THIS PARTICULAR DEVELOPER OR WE
OPENING THE DOOR FOR MORE?
>> THAT WOULD HAVE BEEN A GOOD
POINT FOR DISCUSSION RATHER
THAN ANY TIME DISPARAGING YOUR
CONSTITUENTS.
>> I HOPE WE HAVE A BETTER
DISCUSSION NEXT TIME.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS FIRST.
I WANT TO TALK ABOUT AN
THANK YOU.
OUTSTANDING ISSUE AND THEN SOME
I WANT TO TALK ABOUT AN
POSITIVE ACTION THAT'S HAPPENED
OUTSTANDING ISSUE AND THEN SOME
OVER THE LAST WEEK.
POSITIVE ACTION THAT'S HAPPENED
BUT FIRST THIS IS THE CROSSWALK
OVER THE LAST WEEK.
THAT I HAVE BEEN TALKING ABOUT
BUT FIRST THIS IS THE CROSSWALK
.
THAT I HAVE BEEN TALKING ABOUT
WHY HASN'T STAFF ADDRESS THE
.
CONCERNS?
WHY HASN'T STAFF ADDRESS THE
AND IN ONE CASE AND I OUTLINED
CONCERNS?
THIS IN THE MEMO THE CROSSWALK
AND IN ONE CASE AND I OUTLINED
SIGN IS MORE THAN SIX FEET IN
THIS IN THE MEMO THE CROSSWALK
FRONT OF THE ACTUAL CROSSWALK.
SIGN IS MORE THAN SIX FEET IN
SO TRAINING WAS DONE AROUND THE
FRONT OF THE ACTUAL CROSSWALK.
CROSSWALK SIGN AND THEN THERE
SO TRAINING WAS DONE AROUND THE
IS A WALL OF VEGETATION BEFORE
CROSSWALK SIGN AND THEN THERE
YOU GET TO THE CROSSWALK DEFIES
IS A WALL OF VEGETATION BEFORE
LOGIC AND YOU MAY SAY WHY AM I
YOU GET TO THE CROSSWALK DEFIES
ADDRESSING THIS TO COUNCIL
LOGIC AND YOU MAY SAY WHY AM I
COUNSEL BUDGETS AND COUNCIL
ADDRESSING THIS TO COUNCIL
PASSES POLICIES?
COUNSEL BUDGETS AND COUNCIL
THAT'S ABSOLUTE RIGHT.
PASSES POLICIES?
BUT COUNCIL PASSES BUDGETS AND
THAT'S ABSOLUTE RIGHT.
SETS POLICY FOR NEW PROGRAMS,
BUT COUNCIL PASSES BUDGETS AND
NEW PROGRAMS.
SETS POLICY FOR NEW PROGRAMS,
THAT'S WHAT WE DO ANY ARBOR WE
NEW PROGRAMS.
DON'T EVALUATE OUR PROGRAMS
THAT'S WHAT WE DO ANY ARBOR WE
EVEN THOUGH IT'S VERY IMPORTANT
DON'T EVALUATE OUR PROGRAMS
WITH VISION ZERO WE DON'T HAVE
EVEN THOUGH IT'S VERY IMPORTANT
FEEDBACK LOOPS.
WITH VISION ZERO WE DON'T HAVE
WE JUST GO ON TO THE NEXT
FEEDBACK LOOPS.
PROJECT AND IT'S EXTREMELY
WE JUST GO ON TO THE NEXT
FRUSTRATING AS SOMEONE WHO'S
PROJECT AND IT'S EXTREMELY
BEEN TO VISION ZERO TRAINING TO
FRUSTRATING AS SOMEONE WHO'S
SEE US CHERRY PICK ASPECTS
BEEN TO VISION ZERO TRAINING TO
OF IT WE ARE NOT REDUCING OUR
SEE US CHERRY PICK ASPECTS
PEDESTRIAN CRASHES.
OF IT WE ARE NOT REDUCING OUR
WE ARE NOT MEETING OUR SAFETY
PEDESTRIAN CRASHES.
GOALS AS WE HEARD EARLIER.
WE ARE NOT MEETING OUR SAFETY
NOW FOR THE GOOD NEWS I WENT TO
GOALS AS WE HEARD EARLIER.
MANY OF THE HOUSE PARTY EVENTS
NOW FOR THE GOOD NEWS I WENT TO
THIS WEEK AND IT EXCEEDED ALL
MANY OF THE HOUSE PARTY EVENTS
OF MY EXPECTATIONS.
THIS WEEK AND IT EXCEEDED ALL
IT WAS SO WONDERFUL TALKING TO
OF MY EXPECTATIONS.
PEOPLE WHO I DIDN'T NECESSARILY
IT WAS SO WONDERFUL TALKING TO
AGREE WITH BUT THEY LISTENED TO
PEOPLE WHO I DIDN'T NECESSARILY
ME, I LISTENED TO THEM AND I
AGREE WITH BUT THEY LISTENED TO
LEARNED SO MUCH IT WAS
ME, I LISTENED TO THEM AND I
WONDERFUL AND ONE OF THE THINGS
LEARNED SO MUCH IT WAS
THAT CAME OUT OF IT IS THAT
WONDERFUL AND ONE OF THE THINGS
CONSTRUCTION COSTS FOR MIDDLE
THAT CAME OUT OF IT IS THAT
INCOME FAMILIES EXCEEDS THE
CONSTRUCTION COSTS FOR MIDDLE
MARKET RATE OF THAT PROPERTY IN
INCOME FAMILIES EXCEEDS THE
AN HOUR AND THAT MEANS THAT
MARKET RATE OF THAT PROPERTY IN
PRIVATE DEVELOP WILL NOT BE
AN HOUR AND THAT MEANS THAT
BUILDING MIDDLE INCOME HOUSING
PRIVATE DEVELOP WILL NOT BE
IN ANN ARBOR.
BUILDING MIDDLE INCOME HOUSING
IT'S NOT FINANCIALLY FEASIBLE
IN ANN ARBOR.
BUT THERE ARE WAYS TO BUILD
IT'S NOT FINANCIALLY FEASIBLE
THOUSANDS OF UNITS AND THAT IS
BUT THERE ARE WAYS TO BUILD
WITH COMMUNITY LAND TRUSTS
THOUSANDS OF UNITS AND THAT IS
WORKING WITH THE UNIVERSITY
WITH COMMUNITY LAND TRUSTS
OF MICHIGAN, THE COUNTY RIGHT
WORKING WITH THE UNIVERSITY
NOW IS LOOKING AT A HOUSING
OF MICHIGAN, THE COUNTY RIGHT
COMMISSION THAT WOULD SUPPORT
NOW IS LOOKING AT A HOUSING
NOT ONLY LOW INCOME HOUSING BUT
COMMISSION THAT WOULD SUPPORT
ALSO MIDDLE INCOME HOUSING.
NOT ONLY LOW INCOME HOUSING BUT
SO I BELIEVE THAT WE ARE GOING
ALSO MIDDLE INCOME HOUSING.
TO HAVE SOME PLANS THAT THEY'RE
SO I BELIEVE THAT WE ARE GOING
VERY COMPLICATED BUT ARE GOING
TO HAVE SOME PLANS THAT THEY'RE
TO BE MADE PUBLIC IN THE NEXT
VERY COMPLICATED BUT ARE GOING
FEW WEEKS.
TO BE MADE PUBLIC IN THE NEXT
AND SO AGAIN, I DON'T THINK
FEW WEEKS.
IT'S THE CITY'S RESPONSIBILITY
AND SO AGAIN, I DON'T THINK
AND WE DEFINITELY DON'T WANT TO
IT'S THE CITY'S RESPONSIBILITY
BE USING THE AFFORDABLE HOUSING
AND WE DEFINITELY DON'T WANT TO
MILLAGE FOR MIDDLE INCOME
BE USING THE AFFORDABLE HOUSING
HOUSING BUT THERE ARE OTHER
MILLAGE FOR MIDDLE INCOME
CREATIVE WAYS TO DO IT.
HOUSING BUT THERE ARE OTHER
>> THANK YOU.
CREATIVE WAYS TO DO IT.
THANK YOU, MR. MAYOR.
>> THANK YOU.
I WANT TO REMIND ANYONE WHO MAY
THANK YOU, MR. MAYOR.
BE LISTENING FROM WORD ONE AND
I WANT TO REMIND ANYONE WHO MAY
ACTUALLY ANYONE BECAUSE YOU'RE
BE LISTENING FROM WORD ONE AND
ALL WELCOME BUT WARD ONE PEOPLE
ACTUALLY ANYONE BECAUSE YOU'RE
ESPECIALLY CYNTHIA AND I WILL
ALL WELCOME BUT WARD ONE PEOPLE
BE HAVING OUR QUARTERLY JOINT
ESPECIALLY CYNTHIA AND I WILL
COFFEE HOUR MONDAY SEPTEMBER
BE HAVING OUR QUARTERLY JOINT
TWENTY FIFTH FROM FIVE THIRTY
COFFEE HOUR MONDAY SEPTEMBER
TO SIX THIRTY P.M. IN THE ANN
TWENTY FIFTH FROM FIVE THIRTY
ARBOR DISTRICT
LIBRARY
MULTIPURPOSE ROOM.
I WANTED TO I'M GLAD MURALS
THAT BRIDGE YOU GUYS CAME
BECAUSE I WANTED TO SAY HOW
EXCITED I AM THAT YOU'RE GOING
TO REPAINT THE HURON STREET
OVERPASS BUT AS WORD ONE
REPRESENTATIVES WE ARE EVEN
MORE EXCITED ABOUT I MEAN WELL
WE ARE EQUALLY EXCITED ABOUT
NORTH NORTHMEN.
I AM SO IMPRESSED BY YOUR
FUNDRAISING BECAUSE I KNOW THAT
THERE WAS A KICKSTARTER
CAMPAIGN THAT HAD THE
PARTICIPATION OF 75 COMMUNITY
BACKERS AND THAT IS REALLY
LOVELY AND I KNOW THAT THERE'S
A FUNDING GAP STILL FOR THE
NORTH MAIN PART OF THE PROJECT.
AND SO YOU KNOW, I'D LOVE TO
SEE US ALL RALLY AND YOU KNOW,
EVERY EVERY BIT ANYTHING ANYONE
WANTS TO GIVE IS MEANINGFUL
BECAUSE IT'S ALSO A SHOW
OF SUPPORT AND I'M SO HAPPY
THAT YOU MAKE OUR WORLD MORE
BEAUTIFUL.
AND THEN I JUST WANTED TO SAY
SOMETHING.
I SEE A11 BECAUSE THIS IS
EXCITING.
WE'VE ALREADY SEEN THIS I THINK
ALL WE ARE DOING WITH C11 IS
APPROVING A ISSUING A GRANT TO
THE FIVE OR WANNSEE THREE
OF OUR AND OUR HOUSING
COMMISSION.
SO WE'VE ALREADY RECEIVED THIS
GRANT AND THANKED FOR IT.
BUT ON THE PRINCIPLE THAT YOU
CAN NEVER THANK ENOUGH I JUST
WANT TO SAY THANKS TO THE CITY
ADMINISTRATOR OFFICE FOR THEIR
PERSUASIVENESS BECAUSE THEY
LOBBIED FOR THIS AND SPECIAL
THANKS TO CONGRESSMAN DINGELL
WHO MADE SURE THAT WE GOT IT.
AND THE GRANT INCLUDES
RENOVATIONS TO TEN SITES THAT
ARE ALREADY OWNED BY THE HS AND
THEY WILL BE GREEN RENOVATION.
SO I JUST WANTED TO REMIND
PEOPLE WHAT THAT WAS AND IT'S
NOT ANYTHING NEW BUT IT'S
REALLY GREAT.
COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON, THANK
YOU.
AS PART OF MY COMMITMENT TO
CONSTITUENT ENGAGEMENT TOMORROW
I WILL BE SPEAKING TO THE WOOD
CREEK NEIGHBORHOOD ASSOCIATION
AT THEIR ANNUAL MEETING SINCE
TENDS TO BE HOMEOWNERS
ASSOCIATION MEETING SEASON IF
YOU ARE A WARD RESIDENT AND
WOULD LIKE ME TO ATTEND YOUR
HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATIONS MEETING
PLEASE REACH OUT TO ME VIA
EMAIL SEE WATSON AT A TWO GOV
DOG THIS WEDNESDAY SEPTEMBER
20TH AT FIVE P.M. COUNCIL
MEMBERS SONG AND I WILL BE
HOSTING A LISTENING SESSION AT
GLACIER HIGHLAND'S PARK ON
LARCHMONT DRIVE.
WE WILL BE JOINED BY INTERIM
POLICE CHIEF METZER TO DISCUSS
POLICING IN ANN ARBOR AND
SAFETY TIPS DURING THE BACK TO
SCHOOL SEASON.
>> THANK YOU.
COUNCIL MEMBER GOZI BEACHWEAR
WHERE I WANTED TO GIVE A BRIEF
UPDATE THAT BOTH MYSELF AND THE
COMMISSION ON DISABILITY
DISABILITY ISSUES HAVE BEEN
WORKING WITH DR. LAURA OR TO
OUR DIRECTOR OF ORGANIZATION
EQUITY ON CREATING THE CITY'S
FIRST STAFF POSITION WILL FOCUS
ON ACCESSIBILITY FOR PEOPLE
WITH DISABILITIES AND OLDER
ADULTS SUPER EXCITED THAT
SOMEONE HAS BEEN INTERVIEWED
AND THEY WILL BE STARTING
OCTOBER 2ND.
>> SO EXCITED FOR THAT.
I ALSO WANT TO SHARE THAT MY
LISTENING SESSION WITH COUNCIL
MEMBER DENHA FOR WARD THREE
ORIGINALLY SCHEDULED FOR
SEPTEMBER TWENTY SIX THAT MALTZ
CREEK LIBRARY UNFORTUNATELY HAS
BEEN CANCELED.
WE HAVE RESCHEDULED IT FOR
OCTOBER TWENTY FOURTH FROM SIX
TO SEVEN PM AT MALLETS CREEK
LIBRARY SO PLEASE COME JOIN.
I ALSO JUST WANTED TO THANK
EVERYONE FOR COMING OUT TO THE
THIRD ANNUAL ASIAN AND
AFRICAN-AMERICAN SOLIDARITY
PICNIC.
IT WAS SO GREAT TO SEE SO MANY
FOLKS SHOW UP AND IT MAKES ME
JUST PROUD TO LIVE IN A CITY
WHERE SO MANY OF US COMMIT TO
STAND IN SOLIDARITY WITH EACH
OTHER.
>> THANK YOU COUNCIL MEMBER
BRIGS.
THANKS AND I TOO WOULD LIKE TO
SAY THANKS TO LAURA AND MARY
FOR BEING HERE AND FOR
SPEARHEADING THE PROJECT FOR
THE MURALS BRIDGE.
IT'S GREAT TO SEE THAT GOING IN
AND THE FIFTH WARD AND OVER
HERE ON ST..
>> I ALSO WANT TO THANK THE THE
FOLKS WHO SPOKE FOR
RECOVERY MONTH AS SOMEBODY
WHO'S HAD A MY SON WHO LOST A
FATHER DUE TO ADDICTION.
THIS IS SOMETHING VERY PERSONAL
TO OUR FAMILY AND YOU KNOW,
IT'S THE THE THE PEACE OF OF
UPHOLDING HOPE FOR THOSE WHO
HAVE NOT YET REACHED
RECOVERY IS IS VERY IMPORTANT.
THESE ARE, YOU KNOW, SONS AND
DAUGHTERS AND BROTHERS AND
SISTERS, MOTHERS AND AND
FATHERS AND WE NEED TO NEED TO
SHOW GRACE IN OUR COMMUNITY AND
MAKE SURE THAT WE BUILD ON
CONTINUE TO BUILD A
RECOVERY COMMUNITY.
SO I THINK THOSE THAT ARE OUT
THERE DOING THAT ON A DAILY
BASIS AND ALSO TAKE SERIOUSLY
OUR ROLE AT COUNCIL IN TERMS
OF MAKING SURE THAT WE ARE
CREATING SAFE SPACES AND THEN
FINALLY OR I APPRECIATE ONE I
WOULD LIKE TO SAY TO OUR
SPEAKER, MR. WEEDER THAT I
THINK THAT IT WAS INAPPROPRIATE
THAT YOU WERE WE HAD ANOTHER
SPEAKER HAD DISORDERLY
DISORDERLY CONDUCT CONDUCT AND
THAT WAS INAPPROPRIATE TO HAVE
THAT DIRECTED TOWARDS YOU.
HOWEVER, IN TERMS OF YOUR
STATEMENTS AND ARGUMENTS AROUND
CATHY BECAUSE A CHANKO NOT
DESERVING TO BE HONORED WITH A
STATUE HERE IN OUR CITY I
RESPONDED TO YOUR EMAIL TODAY
BUT I JUST WANTED TO SAY
PUBLICLY THAT I COMPLETELY
DISAGREE.
YOU KNOW, THIS IS SOMETHING
THAT WE AS A COUNCIL BODY
SUPPORTED AND I THINK THE FACT
THAT WE HAD THE FIRST OPENLY
GAY LESBIAN CANDIDATE TO
SUCCESSFULLY RUN FOR OFFICE THE
UNITED STATES IS AN INCREDIBLY
IMPORTANT TO RECOGNIZE THE
ARGUMENT SEEMS TO BE THAT SHE
SHOULD SHOULD HAVE FACED MORE
OPEN DISCRIMINATION, BROKEN
MORE BARRIERS, MADE LGBTQ PLUS
ISSUES MORE CENTRAL TO HER
CAMPAIGN OR LEGISLATIVE WORK
CHAMPIONED MORE TO EARN THIS
DISTINCTION AT A TIME WHEN
LGBTQ RIGHTS ARE UNDER ASSAULT
NATIONWIDE IT SEEMS QUITE
OBVIOUS TO ME WHY WE WOULD WANT
TO HONOR HER AND AND OF PLACE
IN HISTORY AND LET OTHERS KNOW
THAT AND REVERSE A SAFE HAVEN.
I'LL BE PROUD TO BE SUPPORTING
THIS IF IF WE'RE ABLE TO TO
RAISE THE FUNDS PRIVATELY TO TO
A STATUE IN HER HONOR COUNCIL
NO SONG I WAS ABLE TO
PARTICIPATE IN PARKING DAY AS
PART OF A WEEK LONG SERIES
EVENTS THROUGH DO GOOD WORK
LOCAL NONPROFIT THAT HOSTED
HOUSE PARTY THIS PAST WEEK
PARKING DAY WAS ESSENTIALLY AN
INTERNATIONAL EFFORT ON HOW TO
REINVIGORATE PUBLIC SPACES ON
PARKING SPOTS AND THE HOUSING
HALLS.
HOUSING AND HUMAN SERVICES
ADVISORY BOARD COMMITTEE
COMMISSIONERS AND COUNCIL
MEMBER WATSON.
I SPENT ALMOST 11 HOURS
SPEAKING TO AFFORDABLE HOUSING
WITH FOLKS WHO WERE WALKING BY
FOLKS WHO ARE HOUSED.
IT WAS IT WAS IT WAS FANTASTIC
IN THAT WE LEARNED A LOT FROM
THE COMMUNITY AND I REALLY
APPRECIATED HEARING FROM FOLKS
WHO CAME OFF OF OUR WAITLIST
WHO CAME AND WE'RE ALSO TALKING
ABOUT HOW HOW THEY BENEFITED
FROM THIS PROGRAM.
A YOUNG MAN CAME WHO WAS ON
THERE FOR 14 MONTHS AND I LOVE
HIS STORY IN THAT HE'S HOPE HE
WANTS TO STAY IN ANN ARBOR TO
BE A PART OF A VIBRANT GAY
LGBTQ COMMUNITY AND SAID THAT
HE'S RECRUITING OTHER OTHER
DRAG QUEENS TO COME TO L.A. I
SAID BRING THEM OVER.
>> SO IT WAS A CELEBRATION I
THINK OF WHAT CAN BE DONE IN
THE CITY AND I WAS REALLY IT
WAS REALLY I'M REALLY HOPEFUL
AND THAT FOLKS ARE
UNDERSTANDING HOW HOUSING IS
FINANCE.
HOUSING IS STILL A PRIMARY
CONCERN FOR ALL OF US AND THAT
THANK GOODNESS FOR JENNIFER
HALL OF THE HOUSING COMMISSION
FOR FOR DOING WHAT SHE DOES
EVERY DAY WITH HER STAFF.
I WANT TO POINT OUT THAT
THERE'S JUST NOT ALL THE
INFORMATION THAT WE HAD AT THAT
EVENT IS ALSO AVAILABLE ONLINE
AND I THINK BETWEEN MYSELF AND
CHRIS WE CAN ALSO TRY TO SHARE
THAT ESPECIALLY WE HAVE
ADDITIONAL FUNDING COMING FOR
CATHERINE STREET WHICH I HOPE
WILL COME THROUGH PRETTY SOON.
>> THANK YOU.
COUNCIL MEMBER KORNEL.
THANK YOU.
I HAVE WRITTEN REMARKS THAT ARE
GOING TO BE KIND OF HARD TO GET
THROUGH BECAUSE I CAN'T USE
SOME OF WHAT WE'VE HEARD TODAY
,ESPECIALLY AROUND
MARGINALIZED COMMUNITY NETWORK
HARD ENOUGH TO BE RECOGNIZED
.
>> I WANT TO THANK MARY AND
LAURA FOR SHOWING UP.
I THINK THAT THE ROLE OF ART IN
PUBLIC IS EASILY DISMISSED.
WE KNOW THAT ART AND PUBLIC
PROVIDES JOBS AND ENCOURAGES
TOURISM INTEREST REVENUE.
CERTAINLY THAT'S AN AREA OF OUR
COMMUNITY THAT COULD BENEFIT
FROM A LITTLE BIT MORE BEAUTY
AS ALL I CAN.
SO THANK YOU FOR THE WORK THAT
YOU'VE DONE.
I KNOW IT'S BEEN A SLOG TO GET
THERE AND YOUR EFFORTS ARE
APPRECIATED AND I'M HAPPY TO
SUPPORT YOUR WORK.
>> WE HAVE HEARD THAT I HAVE
HEARD PERSONALLY I'VE HEARD
FROM CONSTITUENTS THAT SOME
CONFUSION I MENTIONED IT AT THE
LAST MEETING AROUND THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
I JUST WANTED TO REMIND FOLKS
THAT THERE IS AN APPLICATION TO
APPLY FOR A COMMUNITY STEERING
GROUP THAT WILL MEET SEVEN
TIMES IN 2020 FOR THE
APPLICATION TO APPLY IS ON
OCTOBER SIX AND YOU CAN FIND
MORE ADDITIONS, ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION AT PLAN TO GO DOG
AND ONE OF THE COMMISSIONS THAT
I SERVE AS PART OF THIS BODY IS
ON OUR LOCAL DEVELOPMENT
FINANCE AUTHORITY WHICH SOUNDS
VERY EXCITING UNTIL YOU REALIZE
THAT THAT IS ACTUALLY FUNDING
CHECK CHECK THIS.
SO ON FRIDAY THE TWENTY SECOND
FROM ONE TO FIVE P.M. YOU'LL
WANT TO COME OUT BEFORE YOU HIT
THE MAYOR'S GREEN FAIR AND SEE
COMPANIES THROUGHOUT THE REGION
THAT ARE HIRING CREATING JOBS,
BOOSTING OUR ECONOMIC VITALITY
AND DOING REALLY QUITE FRANKLY
COOL INNOVATIVE THINGS
ADVANCING A LOT OF TECHNOLOGY
FROM THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
TO MAKE IT COMMERCIALLY VIABLE
AND PEOPLE WHO ARE ONE AND TWO
PERSON SHOPS WHO ARE JUST
REALLY HOPING THAT THEIR IDEA
CAN FIND LEGS AND AND CHANGE
THE WORLD IN SOME INSTANCES THE
TECHNOLOGY THAT'S DEVELOPED
HERE IN ANN ARBOR CAN'T BE
UNDERSTATED IN TERMS OF ITS
IMPACT AROUND THE WORLD.
SO I ENCOURAGE YOU TO COME AND
CHECK THAT OUT.
>> OBVIOUSLY GO CHECK OUT THE
MIRROR SCREEN FAIR.
I APOLOGIZE IF I'M STEALING
YOUR THUNDER ON THAT AND
I
SUSPECT THE FACT THAT WE MAY
NOT UNDERSTAND OTHER PEOPLE'S
LIFE SITUATIONS AND CERTAINLY
IF WE'RE NOT IN A MARGINALIZED
COMMUNITY MAYBE JUST NOT SAY
ANYTHING IF YOU DON'T HAVE
ANYTHING GOOD TO SAY COUNCIL
MEMBER OR DENHA.
THANKS, MAYOR.
I WASN'T SURE THAT I WAS GOING
TO RESPOND TO THIS EITHER.
BUT THANKS TO MY COLLEAGUES WHO
ALREADY HAVE, I TOO AM A LITTLE
TROUBLED BY SOME OF THE THINGS
WE HEARD TONIGHT ABOUT REALLY
MINIMIZING CATHY'S ROLE IN THE
HISTORY OF ANN ARBOR IN OUR
COUNTRY THAT THE SUGGESTION
THAT BEING THE FIRST TO DO
SOMETHING ISN'T NEARLY ENOUGH
THAT SHE HAD TO ACCOMPLISH MORE
AND THAT SOMEHOW DESPITE HIS
OWN ACCOMPLISHMENTS THAT ARE
WORTHY OF RECOGNITION A MAN WHO
FAILED BEFORE HER SUCCEEDED
AFTER HER IS SOMEHOW MORE
DESERVING.
KATHY AS AS AN OPENLY GAY
ELECTED OFFICIAL, I AM LUCKY TO
STAND ON THESE SHOULDERS
REGARDLESS OF THE TENURE THAT
SHE HAD HERE.
THE WHAT SHE WAS ABLE TO
ACCOMPLISH, WHAT SHE SHE
STEPPED FORWARD TO SERVE HER
COMMUNITY AND RAN OPENLY AND
HONESTLY AS WHO SHE WAS AND WAS
ELECTED AND THE FACT THAT OUR
COMMUNITY WAS SOMEHOW TOO
ACCEPTING OF HER AS BEING A
PROBLEM OR SOMETHING THAT WE
SHOULDN'T WE SHOULDN'T
RECOGNIZE BECAUSE BECAUSE SHE
DIDN'T FACE ENOUGH
DISCRIMINATION DURING HER
CAMPAIGN OR ENOUGH PUSHBACK.
IT'S JUST SHOCKING TO ME.
I THINK IT'S AN EXAMPLE OF WHY
WE NEED TO ELEVATE HER AND
OTHER PEOPLE LIKE HER.
AND I WILL ALSO SAY I THINK YOU
PUBLIC ART IS MEANT TO SPARK
CONVERSATION AND WE'RE PROBABLY
A YEAR AWAY FROM THIS STATUE
BEING BUILT BUT THE
CONVERSATION HAS STARTED AND I
AM JUST REALLY GRATEFUL THAT
THERE ARE PROBABLY MANY MORE
PEOPLE IN ANN ARBOR WILL BE
THERE TO CELEBRATE THIS
MOMENTOUS PIECE OF OUR HISTORY
THAN THOSE WHO WILL BE
PROTESTING AGAINST IT.
>> THANKS, COUNCILOR AKMAN.
THANK YOU, MAYOR WANTED TO
THANK PEOPLE WHO CAME OUT TO MY
CONSTITUENT HOURS AT ASH PARK
ON SUNDAY AS WELL AS THE DOZENS
OF COMMUNITY MEMBERS JOINED A
BIKE RIDE WITH COUNCIL MEMBER
BRIGS AND I.
WE WERE HOSTING THE MAYOR
OF EMERYVILLE, CALIFORNIA WHO
IS REALLY KNOWN FOR HIS SAFE
STREETS ADVOCACY AND IT REALLY
WAS JUST THE LAST OF OUR
COMMUNITY SHOWED UP.
I THINK ANOTHER EXAMPLE OF THE
BEST IN OUR COMMUNITY WAS THE
HOUSE PARTY EVENTS.
I ATTENDED A SESSION THAT WAS
ORGANIZED BY U OF M GRADUATE
STUDENTS FROM URBAN PLANNING
AROUND THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
THEY HAD A NUMBER OF DIFFERENT
STATIONS THAT HAD KIND
OF PROVOCATIVE ACTIVITIES.
I TALKED WITH A NUMBER
OF PEOPLE I HAD NEVER TALKED TO
BEFORE.
IT WAS JUST A GREAT COMMUNITY
BUILDING, POSITIVE CONVERSATION
AROUND HOUSING SO I APPRECIATE
EVERYONE THAT PUT EFFORT INTO
THAT.
I ALSO MENTIONED THIS IN THE
LAST MEETING AND I'LL MENTION
IT AGAIN BECAUSE IT'S COMING UP
ON THURSDAY THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR IS HAVING AN OPEN HOUSE
TO SHOWCASE THE FINAL DESIGNS
FOR TWO PROJECTS.
WELL, IT'S BEEN COMBINED INTO
ONE PROJECT THE S SEVENTH AND
GREENVIEW DRIVE PROJECT.
SO THIS IS GOING TO BE A
ROLLOUT OF THE FINAL DESIGNS
AND AN OPPORTUNITY TO ASK STAFF
QUESTIONS.
IT'S THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER TWENTY
FIRST FROM SIX TO SEVEN THIRTY
AT THE PITTSFIELD LIBRARY
BRANCH.
>> THANK YOU.
FURTHER COMMUNICATION NEWCASTLE
COUNCIL MEMBER HARRISON THANK
YOU MAYOR.
I WANTED TO LET EVERYONE KNOW
ABOUT THE TWENTY TWENTY THREE
WATCH OPIOID SUMMIT THAT WILL
BE THIS WEDNESDAY AT DEMORRIS
LAWRENCE BUILDING AT WASHTENAW
COMMUNITY COLLEGE.
THE REGISTRATION IS AT EIGHT
A.M. OR THEY WILL ALSO HAVE A
LIGHT BREAKFAST IN PROGRAM
BEGINS AT 9:00 A.M. I WILL BE A
PANELIST AND IN THE BREAKOUT
SESSION WHICH IS CALLED
ADDRESSING STIGMA AS A
COMMUNITY AND YOU KNOW THIS
DISCUSSION WILL BE A VERY
IMPORTANT AND DIFFICULT ONE, A
DIFFICULT TOPIC, THE DIFFICULT
TOPIC OF STIGMA AND DEALING
WITH PEOPLE'S BELIEFS AND
SOCIETAL MISCONCEPTIONS.
>> STIGMA AFFECTS HOW WE SEE
SUBSTANCE USE DISEASE AND ALSO
HARM REDUCTION STIGMA ALSO AS A
COMMUNITY HARM REDUCTION AS THE
COMMUNITY STIGMA ALSO PREVENTS
THOSE FROM GETTING THE HELP
THAT THEY NEED AND THEY
DESERVE.
SO IT'S A VERY IMPORTANT TOPIC
AND IT'S REALLY IMPORTANT THAT
WE CHANGE OUR BELIEFS AS A
COMMUNITY SO YOU KNOW, IF
YOU'RE AVAILABLE PLEASE JOIN US
ON WEDNESDAY.
IT'S AN ALL DAY LIKE I SAID, IT
STARTS AT NINE AND IT SHOULD
END AROUND, YOU KNOW, FOUR FOUR
THIRTY OR FIVE.
SO THANK YOU FOR THE
COMMUNICATION FROM COUNCIL
ALL
WE HAVE BEFORE US THE CONSENT
AGENDA, THE MOTION PLEASE
APPROVE THE CONSERVATIVE
MOVEMENT KAZMIR CORNELL
SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER
DENHA DISCUSSION PLEASE AND
CONSENT AGENDA COUNCIL
AMBROSIANO.
>> I JUST WANT TO SAY HOW HAPPY
I AM TO SEE C TO RESOLUTION TO
RENAME SE AREA PARK IS
BICENTENNIAL PARK THE PARK IS
FREE AND IT'S LOCATED ON THE
SIDE OF TOWN.
THAT'S OUR MOST DIVERSE
SOCIOECONOMIC.
MARCLAY HAS EIGHT OF THE TWELVE
TITLE ONE SCHOOLS IN OUR CITY.
I'M JUST I'M REALLY HAPPY THAT
IT'S GOING TO BE RENAMED AND
IT'S GOING TO BE IMPROVED UPON
IN CELEBRATION OF OUR TWO
HUNDREDTH ANNIVERSARY AS A
CITY.
>> SO I WANT THANK CITY STAFF
FOR THEIR WORK.
>> COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGS NO, NO
,NO.
>> SOMEBODY NOBODY HOCKMAN WANT
SOMEBODY ON THAT SIDE.
PLEASE SAY SOMETHING.
THANK GOT IT.
THANKS.
I GUESS I JUST WANTED TO MAKE
NOTE OF THE FACT THAT WE HAVE
TO ITEMS ON THE CONSENT AGENDA
FOR TRAFFIC COMING DEVICES AND
I JUST DIDN'T WANT PEOPLE TO
GET CONFUSED BECAUSE LAST
MEETING WE PASSED A RESOLUTION
THAT CHANGES THAT PROGRAM BUT
WE'RE FOLLOWING THROUGH WITH
THE PEOPLE WHO ARE ALREADY IN
THE PETITION PROCESS WITH THAT
PROCESS AND THEN UPDATING
INSTRUCTIONS SO THE PEOPLE ARE
HAVING THINGS CHANGED MIDWAY.
SO ANYWAY, I JUST WANTED TO
POINT THAT OUT BECAUSE THAT'S
WHY IT APPEARS ON OUR AGENDA
STILL THANKS FOR THE DISCUSSION
OF THE CONSENT AGENDA ON FAVOR
POSED THE CONSENT AGENDA IS
APPROVED WITH ELEVEN COUNCIL
MEMBERS PRESENT ALL VOTE IN THE
AFFIRMATIVE THAT SATISFYING THE
EIGHT VOTE REQUIREMENT WITH
RESPECT TO EIGHT ZERO NINE WE
NOW COME TO A SET OF PUBLIC
HEARINGS.
PUBLIC HEARINGS ARE
OPPORTUNITIES FOR MEMBERS
OF THE PUBLIC TO SPEAK ACCOUNTS
OF THE COMMUNITY ABOUT MATTERS
OF THE HEART THAT IS TO SAY
WITH RESPECT TO THE SPECIFIC
SUBJECT MATTER OF THE PUBLIC
HEARING THAT IS TO SAY THE
PACIFIC ITEM ON THE AGENDA
SPEAKERS DO NOT NEED TO SIGN UP
IN ADVANCE BUT THEIR SPEECH
MUST RELATE TO THE SPECIFIC
SUBJECT MATTER OF THE PUBLIC
HEARING SPEAKERS BOTH IN HOUSE
AND ONLINE WILL HAVE THREE
MINUTES IN WHICH TO SPEAK.
MARK KIRK OR THE CLERK WILL
NOTIFY YOU WHEN 30 SECONDS ARE
REMAINING AND WHEN YOUR TIME
HAS EXPIRED WHEN YOUR TIME HAS
EXPIRED, PLEASE CONCLUDE YOUR
REMARKS AND CEDE THE FLOOR.
OUR FIRST PUBLIC HEARING IS
PUBLIC HEARING NUMBER ONE AN
ORDINANCE TO AMEND THE ZONING
MACK BEING A PART OF SECTION
FIVE AND TWO OF UP TO FIFTY
FIVE TITLE FIVE THE CODE OF THE
CITY BENTON HARBOR TO SIX SEVEN
ZERO AND TWO SIX NINE ZERO AND
OBVIOUSLY IN ROAD REZONING FROM
R ONE C SINGLE FAMILY DWELLING
DISTRICT TO O OFFICE DISTRICT.
>> IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING?
FOLKS JUST COME ON UP.
THERE'S NO THERE'S NO Q JUST
CAN WE ASK A QUESTION THIS IS
NOT REALLY AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
QUESTION.
>> YOU CAN POSE THE QUESTION
AND PERHAPS IT WILL BE ANSWERED
AT THE DURING THE COURSE DURING
THE COURSE OF THE DISCUSSION.
>> I'M A RESIDENT THAT LIVES
WITHIN SIX HUNDRED YARDS THAT
PROPERTY IN OUR SELINE ROAD IS
HEAVILY TRAFFICKED.
WE HAVE NOT SEEN ANY
INFORMATION THAT LEADS TO OUR
UNDERSTANDING OF ANY STUDIES
THAT WERE DONE IF YOU CHANGE IT
TO OFFICE THAT PIECE
OF PROPERTY OR SEVERAL
OUTBUILDINGS AND READING THE
OFFICE CODE INDICATES THAT ALL
THOSE BUILDINGS COULD BECOME
COMMERCIAL USE PARKING IS
AVAILABLE SLIGHTLY BUT THE
INCREASED TRAFFIC ON ANN ARBOR
SALEEN ROAD RIGHT THERE AT THE
TRAFFIC LIGHT WOULD CAUSE A
GREAT DEAL OF ISSUES FOR OUR
SMALL COMMUNITY.
>> WE HAVE WHAT I WOULD
CONSIDER A VERY LOW COST
HOUSING WHEN IT WAS BUILT.
IT'S BARELY WHAT I COULD HAVE
AFFORDED WHEN I BOUGHT IT FORTY
ONE YEARS AGO.
THAT AREA HAS CHANGED
SIGNIFICANTLY AND BY CHANGING
THAT COMMERCIAL THAT PROPERTY
TO COMMERCIAL OPENS US TO A
REDUCTION OF THE VALUE OF OUR
HOUSE.
WE DON'T KNOW IF THERE'S BEEN
STUDIES ON TRAFFIC NOISE, WATER
ISSUES, LIGHT POLLUTION AND
WHERE DO WE FIND THAT
INFORMATION?
>> IT APPEARS LIKE THIS HAS
BEEN APPROVED AND NOT THE
SIGNIFIER CAN WORK TO PROTECT
OUR SMALL COMMUNITY.
>> WE PAY TAXES.
THEY DO TOO.
WE'VE TALKED TO THE OWNER.
THEY DECIDED TO MOVE OUT OF THE
HOUSE.
WHY DON'T THEY RUN THE
PROPERTY, THEIR BUSINESS FROM
THEIR HOME AND JUST LEAVE THEIR
PRODUCTS ON THE PROPERTY, RENT
THE HOUSE, DO SOMETHING LIKE
THAT.
BUT BY CHANGING THIS
RESIDENTIAL AREA TO OFFICE YOU
TAKE A WHOLE SMALL NEIGHBORHOOD
AND JEOPARDIZE THE VALUES
OF OUR PROPERTY AND IT'S VERY
FRUSTRATING
TO THINK THAT WE
HAVE NOTHING TO SAY.
THANK YOU.
I ALSO LIVE NEAR WHERE DIANE
DOES AND I WOULD LIKE TO SAY
THAT THEY HAVE THIS HOUSE LEAVE
IT AS IT IS WE DON'T NEED ANY
MORE TRAFFIC PROBLEMS ON THAN
OBVIOUSLY BRAZILIAN ROAD.
IT'S VERY BUSY.
WE HAVE A NICE COMMUNITY OVER
THERE.
WE DON'T NEED ANY MORE TRAFFIC.
I WISH YOU PEOPLE WOULD COME
TALK TO US MORE.
GET OUT.
YOU'RE OUR AWARD.
COME TALK TO US HOW WE FELT
ABOUT THIS.
I SEE THERE WAS EIGHT YESES AND
NO DAYS TO THIS SO I DON'T KNOW
IF THIS GOT PASSED BUT YOU
SHOULD TALK TO MORE PEOPLE.
WE DO NOT WANT THIS IN OUR
NEIGHBORHOOD.
WE HAVE A NICE NEIGHBORHOOD.
>> WE WANT TO LEAVE IT THAT
WAY.
WE DON'T NEED ANY MORE TRAFFIC
SO PLEASE LEAVE OUR
NEIGHBORHOOD ALONE.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
>> GOOD EVENING.
CITY COUNCIL.
MY NAME SCATMAN SELL MY OFFICES
AT THREE OR ONE NORTHMEN PROUD
MEMBER OF THE MIGHTY 5TH WARD.
I'M THE ATTORNEY REPRESENTING
INDIAN REALLY RIFE WHO OWN THE
PROPERTY.
WE'RE HERE TODAY TO REQUEST A
REZONING FROM OUR ONE SEAT
OFFICE AND IN HIS FAMILY OWNED
THEIR PROPERTY SINCE THE 70S
THERE'S A LOT INVOLVED.
THERE'S A SMALL HOUSE AND SOME
STORAGE BUILDINGS OVER THE
YEARS THE ABILITY TO RENT THAT
FOR RESIDENTIAL HAS BECOME LESS
AND LESS ATTRACTIVE
BUSINESS IN
TO THE THE HOUSE HE HAS TWO TO
THREE EMPLOYEES AND HOWEVER IN
TWENTY TWENTY TWO THE ZONING
ADMINISTRATOR DROPPED BY AND
SAID HEY THIS IS ZONED
RESIDENTIAL.
YOU CAN'T HAVE AN OFFICE IN
THIS SMALL HOUSE.
SO WE'VE BEEN WORKING SINCE
THEN TO ADDRESS THIS PARTICULAR
ISSUE.
>> A KEY THING TO REMEMBER ANDY
INTENDS TO CONTINUE USING HIS
THE BUILDING FOR HIS OFFICE HAS
NO PLANS TO CHANGE THE SITE AT
ALL IF THERE WERE EVER TO BE A
CHANGE IN THE FUTURE, THERE
WOULD NEED TO BE A SITE PLAN
WHERE ISSUES OF LIGHTING,
NOISE, TRAFFIC, ET CETERA, ET
CETERA WOULD BE ADDRESSED
THROUGH THE APPROPRIATE
PLANNING PROCESS.
BUT HE HAS NO PLANS TO CHANGE
ANYTHING NOW AND JUST CONTINUE
RUNNING IS VERY, VERY SMALL
BUSINESS.
THE RESIGNING TO OFFICE MAKES
SENSE BOTH FOR ANDY'S USE AND
ALSO BECAUSE THE ZONING AREA IT
WOULD ACT AS AN APPROPRIATE
BUFFER BETWEEN THE RESIDENTIAL
USES TO THE WEST AND THE NORTH
AND THE VERY, VERY BUSY
COMMERCIAL ACTIVITY ON THE
OTHER SIDE OF AN URBAN ROAD
PARTICULARLY THE GAS STATION
WHICH IS IMMEDIATELY ACROSS THE
STREET AND WHICH HAS BECOME
INCREASINGLY BUSY OVER THE
YEARS.
>> WE HELD THE CITIZENS
PARTICIPATION MEETING ADDRESSED
QUESTIONS.
WE WENT TO THE PLANNING
COMMISSION, RECOMMENDED
APPROVAL.
WE DID NOTHING.
AND I'LL JUST SAY THERE ARE TWO
PARTICULAR REASONS WHY THIS
REZONING MAKES SENSE.
FIRST, THE CITY COUNCIL IS
ENTITLED TO REZONE PROPERTY
WHEN THERE'S BEEN A CHANGE IN
CONDITIO NUMBER ONE AND THEN
ALSO NUMBER TWO, THIS CHANGE IS
CONSISTENT WITH THE MASTER
PLAN.
AS HAS BEEN NOTED, THE CHANGE
IN COMMISSION CONDITIONS AND
WHY IT'S NO LONGER APPROPRIATE
FOR SINGLE FAMILY FRONTING ON
AN URBAN ROAD AS OPPOSED TO THE
HOUSES TO THE NORTH WHICH ALL
GAIN ACCESS FROM THE BACK.
THEY DON'T GAIN ACCESS IF YOU
THINK ABOUT IT.
I MEAN ROAD IN THAT AREA ALL
THE HOUSES TO THE WHAT SHOULD
THEY BE NE THEY ALL THEIR
BACKYARDS FRONT AND OBVIOUSLY
THEY DO NOT GAIN ACCESS FROM
AND OBVIOUSLY IN ANY EVENT
THERE'S BEEN A CHANGE DRAMATIC
INCREASE IN TRAFFIC ALONG THAT
ROAD CREATED BY THE HUGE RETAIL
ACTIVITY ON THE SOUTH SIDE
OF AN AREA OF NINETY FOUR THERE
AGAIN I NOTED ACROSS THE STREET
AN INCREASE IN COMMERCIAL
ACTIVITY.
IT'S REALLY JUST NO LONGER
APPROPRIATE FOR SINGLE FAMILY
HOUSING.
>> SECONDLY, THIS CHANGE WOULD
BE CONSISTENT WITH THE MASTER
PLAN.
AS I MENTIONED, OFFICE IS A
ZONING DESIGNATION IN INTENDED
TO BE A BUFFER BETWEEN RESIDENT
BETWEEN CONFLICTING LAND USES
AND IN THIS PARTICULAR CASE
WOULD MAKE A GREAT DEAL
OF SENSE TO SHIELD THE
MULTIFAMILY TO THE WEST AND THE
THE RESIDENTIAL TO THE NORTH IN
A WAY FROM FROM THE MORE ACTIVE
COMMERCIAL TO THE EAST.
IT ALSO IS CONSISTENT WITH THE
SUSTAINABILITY ELEMENT OF THE
MASTER PLAN WHICH ENVISIONS A
HIGHER LEVEL OF DENSITY THE
PARTICULAR OR OUR ACTIVITY I
SHOULD SAY IT'S RIGHT ON A BUS
LINE.
>> IT WOULD BE VERY APPROPRIATE
FOR IF IT WERE TO EVER BE
DEVELOPED IT WOULD MAKE MORE
SENSE OF THE THE SCARCE URBAN
LAND THAT WE HAVE IN THE CITY
AND SO WE REQUEST THAT YOU
SUPPORT THE REQUEST FOR
REZONING AND WE'RE HAPPY TO
ANSWER ANY QUESTIONS LATER.
>> THANKS.
THANK YOU
.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE IN HOUSE
SO TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING AND YOU YOU COULD NOT
I'M AFRAID.
>> WELL, SIR, I'M SORRY THAT
CLOCK WASN'T TURNED OFF WHEN
YOU STARTED AND IT DIDN'T TURN
ON UNTIL ABOUT TWO MINUTES
AFTER IT WAS IN.
IF YOU'RE HEARING THAT WOULD BE
AN ERROR.
MY APOLOGIES.
THANK YOU.
IS ANYONE ELSE YOU'D LIKE TO
SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC HEARING?
IS THERE ANYONE I MIND WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING?
>> ALEX LOWE, DO YOU HAVE A
COMMENT?
>> I HAVE ALEX LOGAN THAT AT I
DON'T FIND ANY ISSUES WITH THIS
.
I WOULD LIKE TO POINT OUT TO
THE PEOPLE THAT ARE HERE AT THE
PUBLIC HEARING IN OPPOSITION
THAT THAT THIS THERE WERE THERE
WAS A TIME FOR PEOPLE TO SPEAK
DURING THE PLANNING COMMISSION
FOR THIS AS WELL.
SO PERHAPS THAT WOULD HAVE BEEN
A BIT OF A MOMENT TO SPEAK
ABOUT IT AND PERHAPS GET GET
SOME OPPOSITION SINCE THEY
APPROVED IT.
IT'S NOTHING I WOULD ALSO LIKE
TO SAY I I'M NOT A FAN OF THE
OFFICE DISTRICT GENERAL.
>> IT WOULD BE REALLY
PREFERABLE IF THIS IF THIS WERE
DONE ACCORDING TO WHAT WE WOULD
LIKE TO SEE THIS CITY ABLE TO
DO WITH THE SPACE RATHER THAN
OH THIS IS AN OLD ZONING
DISTRICT SO THAT MEETS OUR OUR
QUICK SHORT TERM DESIRES.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
MAYOR.
I DON'T HAVE ANY OTHER CALLERS
ON LINE WITH THEIR HANDS RAISED
.
SEE NO ONE FURTHER PUBLIC
HEARINGS CLOSED PUBLIC HEARING
NO TO AN AUDIENCE TO AMEND
SECTION ONE TWO ZERO SEVEN
TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION
OF CHAPTER EIGHT OF CITY CODE .
>> IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING?
IS THERE ANYONE ON LINE WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING
?
>> ALL RIGHT.
DON'T SEE ANYONE ONLINE WITH
THEIR HANDS FOR THIS HEARING
.
SEE NO ONE.
THIS PUBLIC HEARING IS CLOSED.
WE HAVE BEEN FORCED TO REGULAR
SESSION MEETING MINUTES
OF SEPTEMBER FIVE.
TWENTY TWENTY THREE HAVE A
MOTION PLEASE TO APPROVE THESE
MINUTES MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER
WATSON SECOND I COUNCILOR GHAZI
EDWYN DISCUSSION OF THE MINUTES
.
WELL IF EVER POSED THE MINUTES
ARE APPROVED BY ONE AN AUDIENCE
TO AMEND THE ZONING MAP BEING A
PART OF SECTION FIVE THAT
TURNED TO CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE
OF TITLE FIVE ARE THE CODE OF
THE CITY BANABA TWO SIX SEVEN
ZERO AND TWO SIX NINE ZERO ANN
ARBOR SALEEN ROAD ZONING FROM R
ONE C SINGLE FAMILY DWELLING
DISTRICT TWO OH THIS DISTRICT
MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER SECOND
BY COUNCIL MEMBER ACKMANN
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF B ONE
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH.
>> THANK YOU MAYOR.
I WANT TO SO JUST I NEED TO SAY
WHAT WE ARE ASKED TO DO HERE
EVEN THOUGH THE MAYOR HAS SAID
THAT I JUST WANT TO WE ARE
ASKED TO APPROVE A REZONING FOR
TWO PROPERTIES TWENTY SIX
SEVENTY AND TWENTY SIX NINETY
ANN ARBOR SILENE ROAD AND IT
WILL BE AN INTENSIFICATION
OF USE FROM OUR ONE SITE.
OH I UNDERSTAND THE CONCERNS
THAT HAVE BEEN EXPRESSED.
I HEAR THAT YOU FEEL THAT THIS
DECISION HAS BEEN APPROVED
WITHOUT HEARING FROM YOU BUT IT
HASN'T BEEN APPROVED.
IT'S BEEN REVIEWED BY THE
PLANNING COMMISSION WHICH
RECOMMENDS THAT COUNCIL APPROVE
IT.
PUBLIC NOTICE WAS GIVEN FOR THE
PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING BUT
YOU MIGHT BE OUT OF RANGE
BECAUSE WE NOTICE WITHIN 300
FEET FOR FOR A REZONING.
BUT YOU'RE HERE NOW AND WE ARE
LISTENING TO YOU UM, SOME
OF THE CONCERNS THAT WERE
RAISED ABOUT INCREASED TRAFFIC
IT'S TO ME AS IF FOLKS MAY NOT
BE AWARE THAT TWENTY SIX
SEVENTY ANN ARBOR SALEEN ROAD
HAS BEEN USED AS AN OFFICE
SPACE FOR APPROXIMATELY THE
PAST FOUR YEARS AND THERE ARE
TWO POINT FIVE FULL TIME
EMPLOYEES WHO WORK THERE FROM
NINE THIRTY TO FIVE MONDAY
THROUGH FRIDAY.
THERE ARE NO VANS BUSINESS
COMMERCIAL TRUCKS PARKED
OUTSIDE THE FACILITY.
>> THE OTHER BUILDING TWENTY
690 ANN ARBOR SALEEN HAS BEEN
USED AS AN INDOOR PERSONAL
STORAGE SITE FOR THE PAST 40
YEARS.
NONE OF THAT IS PERMITTED BY
THE RESIDENTIAL ZONING AND SO
WE ARE ASKED TO REZONE IN ORDER
TO BRING THE PETITIONER INTO
CONFORMITY.
NOW I UNDERSTAND WHY THERE
WOULD BE CONCERNS IS MOVING
FROM A RESIDENTIAL TO AN OFFICE
ZONING IS UNUSUAL.
IT IS AN INTENSIFICATION OF USE
BUT PLANNING COMMISSION JUDGED
THAT AN INTENSIFICATION OF USE
MAKES SENSE FOR THIS PROPERTY,
PARTICULARLY IN THE CONTEXT
WHERE THERE IS IN THIS AREA A
FAIR AMOUNT OF COMMERCIAL
ACTIVITY, A HIGHWAY AND A GAS
STATION.
BUT I ALSO WANT TO EMPHASIZE
THAT THERE IS PROTECTION FOR
CURRENT RESIDENTS ANY FUTURE
EXPANSION EITHER OF THE TWO
BUILDINGS OR THEIR PARKING LOTS
WOULD REQUIRE A FORMAL SITE
PLAN SUBMISSION AND WOULD HAVE
TO BE REVIEWED AND APPROVED BY
THE PLANNING COMMISSION AND OR
CITY COUNCIL DEPENDING ON WHAT
THE NATURE OF THE CHANGE WAS.
SO ALL WE ARE DOING HERE IS
ALLOWING WHAT'S ALREADY
HAPPENING THERE AND SHOULD
THERE BE AN EXPANSION WE WOULD
HAVE A PLANNING COMMISSION OR
US DEPENDING ON HOW BIG WOULD
HAVE A CHANCE TO TO EVALUATE
WHETHER IT WAS APPROPRIATE FOR
THE CONTEXT.
SO I SUPPORTED THIS ON PLANNING
COMMISSION AND I THINK IT IS
SAFE TO SUPPORT NOW I
UNDERSTAND THAT SOMETIMES JUST
THE FEELING OF NOT BEING HEARD
CAN CAN MAKE CAN STIR
OPPOSITION AND I WANT TO YOU
KNOW, INDICATE THAT WE'RE
HEARING YOU COUNCIL MEMBER.
YEAH.
THANKS.
I DO SUPPORT THIS REZONING BUT
I WOULD LIKE TO SAY THAT I DO
YOU THINK THIS POINTS TO A
BROKEN PART OF OUR CODE AND
IT'S ONE OF THE REASONS I'M
REALLY EXCITED THAT WE'RE
STARTING THE COMPREHENSIVE LAND
USE PLAN.
WHAT WE'RE SEEING HERE IS A USE
ESSENTIALLY A SERVICE THAT'S
ALREADY BEEN PROVIDED HERE IS
ILLEGAL AND NEIGHBORS HAVE
EXPRESSED THAT THEIR SUPPORT
THEY'RE NOT THEY'RE NOT OPPOSED
TO THE USE THAT'S HAPPENING.
THEY'RE WHAT THEY DON'T WANT TO
SEE IS MAYBE THE
INTENSIFICATION OF OF WHAT
COULD COME FORWARD IN THE
FUTURE WITH OFFICE HISTORICALLY
SOME OF OUR BEST NEIGHBORHOODS
,SOME OF THE FIFTH WARD, SOME
OF THE NEIGHBORHOODS THAT I
HAVE THAT I REALLY APPRECIATE
THE FORUM I'VE HAD MIXED USE
WITH EMBEDDED WITHIN THE
NEIGHBORHOOD SO THAT YOU HAVE
SERVICES THAT EXIST RIGHT NEXT
DOOR TO RESIDENTIAL HOMES AND I
THINK THAT'S WHAT MAKES
NEIGHBORHOODS HEALTHY IS WHEN
YOU HAVE THAT MIX OF OF USES
AND RESIDENCE.
AND SO I'M EXCITED THAT WE'RE
STARTING THIS COMPREHENSIVE
LAND USE PROCESS.
I THINK IT ALLOWS US TO START
HAVING THESE CONVERSATIONS
ABOUT WHAT WE WOULD LIKE TO SEE
MIXED IN WITH OUR NEIGHBORHOODS
SO THAT, YOU KNOW, RESIDENTS IN
THE FUTURE DON'T HAVE TO WORRY
ABOUT LARGE PARKING LOTS NEXT
TO THEM BUT CAN BE SUPPORTIVE,
EXCITED ABOUT, YOU KNOW,
CLEANING BUSINESSES THAT DO
EXIST RIGHT NEXT DOOR TO THEM.
>> SO FURTHER DISCUSSION I JUST
WANTED TO SAY THANK YOU TO THE
RESIDENTS CAME UP TO GIVE
PUBLIC COMMENT.
I DON'T HAVE A LOT TO ADD IN
TERMS OF THE FACTS OF THIS
REZONING, BUT I GUESS I WOULD
JUST NOTE THAT I LIVE NOT THAT
FAR FROM THIS AREA AND RIDE
PAST IT QUITE OFTEN AND KNOW
THESE EXACT STRUCTURES.
YOU KNOW, I CAN UNDERSTAND
THEY'VE HAD A HARD TIME RENTING
THEM OUT AS A SINGLE FAMILY
RENTALS RIGHT ACROSS FROM THIS
GAS STATION A LARGE PARKING
LOTS, BRIGHT LIGHTS, YOU KNOW,
FIVE LANES OF TRAFFIC I BELIEVE
IN FRONT OF IT YOU I THINK IT
SHOULD BECAUSE FOR US TO THINK
ABOUT HOW WE STRUCTURE OUR LAND
USE AROUND WHERE PEOPLE LIVE AS
WELL, THE REASON WHY I'LL BE
SUPPORTING THIS AS I DUG INTO
THE DETAILS OF IT AGAIN I DON'T
SEE THIS AS CHANGING THE
CURRENT USE THAT'S BEEN GOING
ON FOR FOUR YEARS.
I DON'T YOU KNOW, I DON'T SEE
ANY REASON TO THINK THAT IT'S
GOING TO INCREASE TRAFFIC
PARKING OR EVEN BE NOTICEABLE
TO THE NEIGHBORS.
AGAIN, WE WOULD GET A NEW SITE
PLAN THAT WOULD HAVE TO GO
THROUGH APPROVAL PROCESS IF
THAT WERE TO HAPPEN.
>> SO I'M COMFORTABLE
SUPPORTING IT FURTHER
DISCUSSION FOR ALL THE REASONS
THAT HAVE BEEN ARTICULATED.
I TOO AM GOING TO BE SUPPORTING
THE REZONING.
I GUESS I WOULD LIKE TO
EMPHASIZE SOMETHING WHICH I
THINK WAS TOUCHED UPON
SOMEWHERE BUT TO DESCRIBE THE
NATURE OF THE APPROVAL PROCESS
BRIEFLY IN THE EVENT THAT THERE
WERE TO BE A CHANGE IN USE
WHICH IS A WE HEARD FROM THE
REPRESENTATIVE IS NOT
CONTEMPLATED BUT IN THE EVENT
THAT THERE WOULD BE A CHANGE
YOU SAID OF COURSE WOULD GO TO
PLANNING COMMISSION BUT IT
WOULD ONLY GO TO PLANNING
COMMISSION AFTER IT HAD PASSED
STAFF REVIEW OF STAFF REVIEW
WOULD INCLUDE ENSURING THAT
WHATEVER SITE PLAN HYPOTHETICAL
SITE PLAN WOULD COME IN WITH
RESPECT THESE PARCELS THAT IT
WOULD MEET OUR TRAFFIC REQUIRE
THAT WHATEVER TRAFFIC STUDY
REQUIREMENTS THAT WOULD MEET
REQUIREMENTS IF ANY THAT WOULD
MEET STORMWATER REQUIREMENTS
ALL THOSE UTILITY ABILITY
CRITERIA, ALL THOSE WOULD BE
REVIEWED BY BY STAFF AND
COMPLIANCE OBLIGATED PRIOR TO
IT BEING BROUGHT FORWARD.
SO I'M APPRECIATING THE THE
CONCERN ABOUT THE ABSENCE
OF THOSE THINGS AT THIS
JUNCTURE.
THE REASON FOR THAT IS BECAUSE
THERE IS NO CHANGE CONTEMPLATED
OR PROPOSED AT THIS TIME TO THE
USE IT'S MERELY A ALTERATION
OF THE ZONING TO CONFORM WITH A
LONGSTANDING USE FOR THE
DISCUSSION ON FAVOR I'M SORRY
COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA THANK YOU.
I WAS JUST GOING TO BRIEFLY
ADDRESS I TOO AM GOING TO
SUPPORT THIS BECAUSE IT'S IT'S
ESSENTIALLY CODIFYING ITS
CURRENT USE BUT I WANTED TO
BRIEFLY ADDRESS REMARKS IN THE
PUBLIC HEARING FROM ONE OF MY
CONSTITUENTS WHICH IS ALSO JUST
KIND OF THINK ABOUT THIS IS YOU
KNOW, DIRECTLY BEHIND THESE
PROPERTIES AN APARTMENT
COMPLEX, DENSER HOUSING ACROSS
THE STREET FROM WHOLE FOODS.
AND SO I DO THINK IT'S ALSO
POTENTIALLY A MISSED
OPPORTUNITY FOR FOR US TO BE
THINKING MORE LONG TERM ABOUT
WHAT COULD REALLY GO IN HERE
AND IN TERMS OF HOUSING FOR FOR
RESIDENTS AND BEING WITHIN
IMMEDIATE WALKING DISTANCE
OF OF THE AMENITIES THAT THEY
NEED.
>> AND SO I HOPE THAT WE
CONTINUE TO THINK ABOUT THAT IN
THIS AREA AS WELL FOR THE
DISCUSSION FAVRE POSED.
>> IT IS APPROVED
TO BE TO AN
AUDIENCE TO AMEND SECTION ONE
TO ZERO SEVEN TRANSPORTATION
COMMISSION OF CHAPTER EIGHT
OF THE CITY CODE MOVE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER CORNELL
COUNTERMARCH IN DISCUSSION
PLEASE OF THE TWO OR IN FAVOR
POSED IT IS APPROVED DC ONE
RESOLUTION TO APPROVE REVISED
BYLAWS OF THE TRANSPORTATION
COMMISSION MUBI COUNCIL MEMBER
HACKMAN'S LIKE MY COUNTERPART
OUR DISCUSSION PLEASE OF DC ONE
ON FAVOR POSED IS APPROVED DC
TWO RESOLUTION TO REVISE TWENTY
THREE COUNCIL CALENDAR MOVE BY
COUNCILMAN REDISH SECOND MY
COUNCIL MARKAZI HAD ONE
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF DC TWO
COUNCIL MEMBER OF DENHA ON FAIR
POSE IT IS REVIEW APPROVED IT
IS REVIEWED.
WE'VE REVIEWED AND APPROVED A
DC THREE RESOLUTION TO AMEND
RESOLUTION ARE TWO THREE THREE
ZERO SIX TO SELL THREE FIVE
ZERO S FIFTH THE ANN ARBOR
HOUSING DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER
EXECUTIVE COUNCIL MEMBER DISH
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF DC THREE
COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGS.
>> THANKS.
SO THIS AMENDMENT OBVIOUSLY WE
THIS RESOLUTION SORT RECTIFIES
AN ISSUE THAT THE HOUSING
COMMISSION HAS IDENTIFIED SINCE
WE APPROVED THE SALE OF THREE
FIFTY S FIFTH TO THE HOUSING
HOUSING DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
.
ESSENTIALLY ONE OF THE
PROVISIONS THAT WE HAD WITH THE
DEED WAS THAT IF THE SITE WAS
NOT DEVELOPED AS AFFORDABLE
HOUSING WITHIN 15 YEARS OF OF
TIME OF SALE THAT WOULD NEED TO
BE RETURNED TO THE CITY AT NO
COST THAT HAS PROVEN TO BE IN
SINCE THAT MISHAAL HAS BEEN
SPEAKING TO THE FINANCING
COMMUNITY IDENTIFIED THAT THIS
POTENTIALLY POSES A RISK IN
TERMS OF SECURING FINANCING FOR
THE PROJECT IN TERMS
OF SECURITY.
SO THAT IS THE PRIMARY REASON
FOR THIS CHANGE SO THAT WE CAN
ACTUALLY MAKE SURE THAT WE GET
AFFORDABLE HOUSING AT THE SITE.
THE OTHER DEED RESTRICTION THAT
THIS WILL BE DEVELOPED AS
AFFORDABLE HOUSING WILL BE WELL
WILL REMAIN IN PLACE.
>> I WILL SAY THAT I ALSO THINK
THAT IF I HAD THAT THIS
PROVIDES ADDITIONAL SECURITY
FOR US OUR AFFORDABLE HOUSING
MILLAGE FUNDS ARE ARE SECURE IN
THE SENSE THAT, YOU KNOW, AT NO
POINT IN TIME WOULD THIS
ACTUALLY BE TURNED BACK OVER TO
THE CITY AT NO COST.
>> SO I THINK THAT IS THAT IS
IMPORTANT AS WELL FOR THE
DISCUSSION FAVRE POSED.
>> IT IS APPROVED.
>> WE HAVE THE PLEASURE OF A
CLOSED SESSION TODAY.
NO, THANK YOU, MAN.
WE HAVE A FORCE OF SUPPORTIVE
COMMUNICATIONS PETITIONS AND
REFERRALS.
I HAVE A MOTION PLEASE TO
APPROVE THE CLERK'S SUPPORT
MOVE BY COUNCIL REDUCING
COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF THE
CLERK'S REPORT FAVRE POSED.
>> IT HAS PROVED ARE THERE
COMMUNICATIONS TODAY FROM OUR
CITY ATTORNEY IN IN THE ABSENCE
OF PUBLIC COMMENT, OVERFLOW MAY
HAVE A MOTION TO ADJOURN MOVE
BY COUNSEL PRODUCED BY COUNCIL
MEMBER BECAUSE HE HAD ONE
DISCUSSION ON FAVOR
OPPOSED.
>> WE'RE ADJOURNED